This is Jocco podcast number 169.
But echo Charles and me, Jocco Willink.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
And tonight we have a return guest by the name of Jocco.
So before listening to this podcast, if you have not listened to podcast 24, 25, and
one 11, then go back and listen to those podcasts first so that you can hear about Jocco's
life growing up, joining the Canadian Army, his trials and tribulations in the Canadian Army,
his successes and his failures.
How he eventually became a sniper, served overseas, eventually an Afghanistan where he
was wounded, badly lost both of his legs.
But drove on became a successful politician in the city of Ottawa and was carrying on with
his life.
But things were not as pretty on the inside as they might have appeared on the outside.
When Jocco came back on for podcast, 11, 11, I had a suspicion that things might not
being going that great, there seemed to be something lurking just beneath the surface.
And for whatever reason, and there is no good reason that I can give, I didn't say anything.
And I actually talked to a couple of my buddies who fought the same thing, who said, man,
Jodi didn't quite sound right on that.
And it was the same thing that I thought, it was the same thing that I could sense in my
gut and my gut was right.
There was more going on behind the scenes.
And Jodi is back today to explain where he's been.
What happened?
How he slipped off of the path and how he has gotten back on it.
So Jodi.
Jago.
Welcome back.
Thank you, brother.
And I guess I mean that more ways than one.
Yeah.
So talk to me, bro.
Getting wounded sucked.
And you know, when was I here last?
January 2018, I think Kelly and I rolled through Kelly.
I wasn't there, but I don't know if anybody can see her here.
But Kelly is my fiance and my best friend.
She's present.
She's not watching on YouTube.
She was our dog Athena.
But anyway, yeah, man.
I spent 2007 to 2017 pretending I had prosthetic feet that didn't matter.
I guess I had my feet blown off.
And Kelly saw what had like at some point after I was elected.
Because what was the position you're elected to city councilor?
I think I don't know.
You call them all their men down here, maybe?
Yeah.
And because I just come off the amazing race Canada.
And I was second place on that.
So I was popular in Canada.
So that helped me with the election.
But also raised my profile in Canada.
And so they made me the sports commissioner for the city.
And I was the veterans liaison.
And things like that.
And my personal relationship wasn't going that well.
And you know, things like that.
So things in the background, like you said, of life.
Everyone says, oh, you look like the perfect family.
But you know, like it's what else are you going to put on Facebook?
Right?
I mean, that's what it's for.
And we were just going in different directions.
And that's fine.
So I actually split up and moved out in fall of 16.
And I found that politics job, frankly, as eager and as I was
to serve, because politics despite what most people think
is service to your country.
Most politicians could probably make
twice as much money doing other things.
And just like when my book came out and flinching,
I had that deal in place before I started campaigning.
And I was like, well, well, and also with the amazing race.
So I was like, one of these things will work out.
Turned out, I got, I got, I got, you know,
what do you call it?
And crabs where you throw and you get the dice are good.
Seven.
I got seven with every rule.
So the show worked and then the book worked and then the election,
I won it.
So I had all these things to juggle, you know?
And when I got elected and I was like happy about it,
because I was like medically retiring that in 2014.
I medically retired.
And I didn't want to, of course, like all soldiers, right?
We want to carry on.
I wanted to train more snipers and more troops.
But anyway, I'm in service to my country.
Awesome.
And you know, people tell you something like,
you know, going out for the seals.
It's not what you see on TV and it's this and that.
And you go, yeah, okay.
And of course, you know that.
But until you're there, there's really no way.
No one can prepare you for it, right?
You have to experience it.
You actually live it.
Yeah, like sniper school, you have to go next.
There's no way to prepare unless you do it.
So politics is the same.
And I'm a straight guy.
And you know, we are honorable men for the most part.
And we do our best to stick to our word and politics.
I'm not saying that it's not that, but there's a whole lot of pretending.
And by pretending, I mean, you have to say one thing and mean another.
And you know, it's not necessarily lying, but it's not necessarily the truth.
And the political brinkmanship that is with that job means always holding your cards very
tight.
And you know, and I know, I'm a combat guy.
You know, I'm I'm action.
And I'm about getting things done.
And although that worked in a lot of ways for politics and in a lot of other ways, it wasn't
messing.
So I had no, I had a couple colleagues on council that I liked and I hung out with.
But for the most part, I didn't have any friends.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah.
And my soldier brothers and sisters, they were around.
But now I am this guy who is a politician and a best-selling author.
And I was on an amazing race.
So whenever I hung out, it was like, hey, let's talk about what you're doing.
Me.
And I'm like, can we just talk about the last UFC or hey, what's going on at the unit?
Or what's the latest equipment, a choir that's cool?
People are inviting me places on the guest of honor here.
And this and I'm like, I'm missing just being Jody.
You know, and it got to a point where I was and then on top of it, my legs were not cooperating.
They just didn't want to take the beating of everyday life anymore.
And so I started drinking again.
And it was drinking to mask the pain mostly, but also...
So what does that look like when you first of all, how long had you stopped drinking for?
Or did you completely stop drinking?
I never stopped drinking.
But I was because I got addicted to the opioids, pardon me.
Because I got addicted to my oxy-coat and I didn't want to take pain meds.
So at the end of a day, long day, so I'd show up at the office usually between six
and eight, you know, depending on what was going on and of what committees I was sitting
on or of counsel, what meetings.
And then politics is all about being places to shake hands as well.
And that's I love that part.
Meeting people, talking to people, it's awesome.
I have no, you know, me and the mayor go along and I, you know, I get along with the other
two levels of government and it was fun.
And you go places and you represent veterans and that's the important thing for me.
And, you know, the whole point to get into politics is to be a better representative for
my brothers and sisters that are now veterans.
Yeah, because I got to throw this out there where you talked about how when you're a politician,
you're serving your country.
And unfortunately, there's a lot of politicians that when they're politicians, they're serving
themselves.
And I'm sure you must have seen that.
And I know that's what makes people get that stereotypical negative attitude towards
politicians because oftentimes politicians are just looking out for their best interests.
And whether that means they're doing things inside their district because they just want
to get something for themselves like more money.
But oftentimes, they're just doing what they need to do to get reelected.
I just still self-servant.
Well, that's the funny thing with politics is if you're self-serving, it's a catch
22.
Right?
And you just pointed it out.
Like, if I get reelected, I can still continue to do this for my community.
But I have to get reelected.
So I do this to get reelected and then I can do this for my community.
Yeah.
It's kind of like that.
You play the game.
Yeah, it's that your favorite word, the dichotomy of politics.
So, quite often though, I found myself like there is one thing where my staff and
it was, and it's, you know, the stupidest things that I can get you, especially at city
level.
Well, level of politics and I can't at anyway, I don't know about here, but is the city
level, the municipal level.
Because you are plugged into 90% of most people's daily life's flesh and water.
Our toilets, flesh and water running, 911 working, the dog park, you know, being cleaned
up, the grass, you know, snow plowed, if you're in Canada.
Here, I guess, I don't know, what do you guys have?
Stormdrains that maybe get plugged in in the bottles.
Potels?
Yeah, I'm just an auto actually.
So, you know, it's your always on.
So, you go around, you meet people and so, you know, I love that part, but my legs started
to just go.
And so, I didn't want to take the pills.
And what causes that?
Is it just the friction beat down on your legs, so it may long every day?
Well, it's like, you know, your elbows are designed for, you know, certain amount of weight
bearing, right?
And the skin there, and can handle it.
But now try weight bearing on your fore, you know, unless you really work at it, you know,
and even then the skin there will never take weight like your elbows will.
And that's what happens with prosthetics and with amputations.
And so, I was also wearing my legs and what's called a suction, with a suction system.
And so what that is is the liner around my, that I put over my leg before I put them
into the socket has like a gasket.
And it pushes the air out and it's a one way valve.
And so then it's like, and so it's a vacuum, right?
And so that vacuum was constantly pulling on the leg.
And for most people that have no issue, but for whatever reason, and I looked around and
I realized that most double below knee amputees use a sleeve.
So now I use a sleeve, but at the time, because every layer is that much more dexterity
lost in the movement of your knee, right?
And I'm like, I was telling Echo before the show.
Like I've done things with prosthetics.
I've most of the guys that make them are like, I've never seen anybody break it this way.
Like, or I've never seen this type of damage or like you did what?
Like you're not supposed to do these things with a double amputee.
And so I just wanted the most mobility possible, but I was actually losing mobility because
of the pain that I was putting myself through.
So my butt, my skin just couldn't handle that constant suction.
And so I was drinking, you know, I toughed out my teeth and at the end of the day we
go to the pub next to City Hall, I'll have a few drinks, talk, some politics.
And usually I'm the last one there.
And then like, you know, did it escalate to that?
Where are you like, oh yeah, we're going to have a couple drinks.
And then it's like, oh yeah, a couple drinks and most people are gone.
It's all, I'm still fine.
And then eventually you look around, you know, like all in the last person here.
Oh, and oh, it's been three weeks.
So that's been the last person here.
It was like three months, yeah, it was six months.
And then like, and I was known now, you know, and then in City Count, like the inside politics
of City Hall was Jodie, you know, if you want a party called Jodie.
You know, or for where's Jodie at that's where the fun is?
And you know, and I'm not saying like it was like crazy things that you see on house
of cards or anything like that.
But if there was an event, I was there, you know, and again, like for a bit of it was
avoiding going home and dealing with that situation properly.
And then the more pain I'm in, the more I'm drinking and then the more I'm drinking.
And then you just put in yourself through more damage, right?
Like you're out later, but because you're not feeling it, you're out later.
Then you're causing more damage, right?
So I move out fall of 16 and then it's spring of 17.
My legs are just, they're done.
They're just like, like, I, I came back.
I did this thing in Canada called Canada Reeds and it's a national thing where you read
a book and then you try to get it to win the contest.
And it's a weak and Toronto.
And I did that and I gritted my way through it and then I got home and I was at my old house
with with my ex and my kids and and I took my legs off after because I just, I went
there straight from the flight because I want to see the girls and I took my legs off and
like she, like my ex, she was there the night I was wounded.
And she said that she'd never heard me in the 10 years, she's known me make those types
of sounds from pain.
Because I took my legs off and it was, it was just like torture.
Because while you have the pressure on and you're using them, like a kind of, you know,
you spray in an ankle maybe, you know, and you go around on it.
No, I'm not.
Yeah, but at the end of the day when you get off, take the weight off.
That's when it really hurts.
That's basically what happened and she was like, wow, I've never heard you make those noises.
You must be in real pain.
So after that, I just couldn't wear my legs anymore.
And that's like, I mean, I saw you almost a year later, I was still in my wheelchair.
Yeah.
How much of that is, I know you were going hard, working hard.
How much of that is because you're spending an extra three, four hours a day standing
around at the bar drinking.
How much of that is because the damage that alcohol is doing to your system.
Yeah, yeah.
How much of it is self-imposed?
Good 50% I'd say.
Yeah.
I mean, just getting out of bed and putting the legs on hurt.
And then, you know what I'd say?
It's like again, when you, I always go to the ankle because I used to spray in them a lot
when I had them.
And that sucks as an infantry guy.
But I learned how to tape them and I did some exercises.
But, you know, like, getting into your boot or once you're in there, though, and you
lace it up and you're usually good to go with it, right?
So that's what I was doing every single morning for like a year.
And then like, and then, you know, I'm just going to say it now, I started abusing cocaine.
And to go because, you know, when you have a few drinks, you start to wobble.
And unfortunately, I picked up the habit after my first rotation Afghanistan.
It was like, kind of like a seeking that thrill again.
I don't know.
I'm sure you've had a lot of troops tell you this type of thing.
But, and it goes out of your system in a couple days.
Whereas weed is there for months at a time.
You know, and I don't know, I didn't touch anything since like high school when my buddy's
hot mom sold hash.
And me and my other buddy went hang out and I'd buy it.
I never, I only spoke to like three times, but anyway, then you're out even longer.
Then you're still wearing your legs even longer.
And, you know, and what was the, what was the, how did you just, you kind of just said,
oh, yeah, I was drinking and then I was doing some cocaine.
For me, that's a big step, like I mean, well, we need to, because here's the thing.
I want people to understand what opened that door up.
What made you say yourself, you know what?
I'm a politician or I'm a wounded vet.
I can do kind of whatever I want.
Well, that was part of it.
Yeah.
I, because I had so much success and I was so much, you know, it was my name on the, on the door.
And, and at first, like I went in with full intentions of being doing the honorable thing
and this, and being, being a standup guy.
And I think I was for a lot of part, but where I started going down is when it was the
booze and the, and the Coke started to fill in the gaps where I should have been at home
or in the gym or, or things like I was seeking immediate reward, you know, like I would,
like say a power through a week of pain and, and like getting up early and going, because
I was, you know, right up until I moved out of the house, like I was training for a bodybuilding
show.
I was looking good, I was feeling good, I was going here, I was going there.
I kind of started feeling arrogant, you know, like, like, I'm, I'm jody medic and I work
my ass off and I'm going to party my ass off this weekend because I can't.
And then it went from the weekend to, okay, it's Thursday.
You know, and we got no meetings tomorrow at City Hall, so I'm going to sleep in tomorrow
because tonight I'm going, and there's always events.
There's always events where you can go and eat and drink and meet people and look cool.
And, and I was the guy who did amazing race, wrote a book, got, or got wounded and I've
got a stand, powered his way back, that did, did I got elected, you know, like I was
always on display, it felt, you know.
So when I was allowed to be myself, I kind of just let loose, you know, I'd like to fuse
on the, on the rocket.
And, was anyone advising you?
Was anyone pulling you aside going, hey, bro, you know, tighten this up?
No, because I was the man in my world.
I was, I was in charge.
Like, like, my assistant, he tried his best, but, you know, it's not something like, like,
even, even Kel, right, she was around for a little bit.
Like, it's not something you just walk up and go, hey, Jocco, you know, fucking, sorry.
Okay, hey, Jocco, are you doing Coke?
You know, unless you have that relationship with someone, you can't just open that door,
right?
Like, it's your door, are you, are you, are you Jack and needles up your arm?
Like, are you doing Harold?
Like, you know what I mean?
Like, you can't just, so, and like I said, I was the man in my life.
My whole world was, like, I was so in charge.
Yeah.
I kind of drank my own cool aid for a while.
You know what, I talk about it.
You go obviously all the time.
And one of the things I say when I talk about ego is, is when you start believing your own
hype, right?
Oh, bro, it's the worst.
And if you put yourself in a position where no one even has the, the balls to come up to you
and say, hey, I think you could do this a little bit differently.
And even if they do, or they try and hint at it, you kind of steam roll them because you're
the man.
And this is what that situation is where you aren't looking at yourself thinking, okay,
what am I really doing right now?
How is this working out?
Well, to, in my view for a long time, it had all worked out fine.
Yeah.
Which, which all that does is solidify your beliefs.
Well, like, you're on the show.
You come in second.
You come in second with no legs.
That's pretty much like, I'm pretty nice, right?
I sprinted past a sprinter.
Like that girl Selena, she was a sprinter in high school.
And I sprinted past her, you know.
And I'm getting older and, you know, my, you know, I'm just, I was, what, yeah, it just,
but when it started being like it was a, it was a Saturday night and then it was a weekend
day and then it was like a four day weekend.
And then next thing I knew, I was out because, you know, I didn't need to go home.
And I saw the kids on the weekends and stuff.
So I just, I was able to manipulate my, and I'm the boss on my own schedule.
Yeah.
You're manipulating everything, including yourself because you're, because you're
a big professionalize.
It's still funny because it's not like you don't see this play out over and over and
over again with, with famous people, right?
Every, every, every, every.
Famous people that all the sudden they get a, they get a role in a movie or they, they do
something they, they get recruited to a professional sports team and next thing you
know, no one can tell them anything and they're going to go and they're going to go
hard and the other thing that happens is you get surrounded with yes men.
People that are just telling you, oh, yeah, yeah, you do whatever you want.
And in my opinion, a lot of times those, yes men, they're, they're actually digging.
They're, they're actually possibly, well, they're either trying to hook onto you and
get what they can out of you and ride your coat.
100% or there's someone that just looking to make you fall down because they're jealous.
100%.
I was surrounded by both and I'm not, and it, hey, if you were around me and you're
listening to this, I'm not saying that was you, but there are some people that might
be listening that know exactly what they were in my life at the time and looking back
on it, it's like, you know, it's like doing a map, Ricky after the, after the mission or
something and then you go, oh, how did I not see that right there, that object or that
obstacle, right there, how did I miss that?
Yeah.
When it's so obvious, so, you know, I spent, so I think it's important to like just pause
for a second though because people go into these situations all the time and what you have
to do is you have to be, you have to do a map study like you're saying, you have to do a
reconnaissance, you have to look around and say, hey, maybe I don't know exactly where
I am, maybe I need to look for some of these obstacles, maybe I need to look for some
of these obvious pitfalls that I'm going to look back in five years and I'm going to
say, oh, that person was a leech or oh, I was being an idiot or oh, everyone was fueling
the fire so they could get more out of me.
And when, when that's the way it is, if you're aware of that, that you're going to get
yourself in that situation, the problem is, the problem is you get in that situation,
you're supposed to be self-aware, but you can't because you're in that situation.
Right.
It's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's
an Italian man, when you're doing the amount of drinking and then the amount of drugs I was
doing, you, it's impossible.
Do your, your ability to think objectively and self like, yourself awareness dissolves.
And guys like you and me and we're, you know, we're warriors, we're elite, that's in that,
we are supposed to have it all together, but it's actually, it's super common in our, in
our, in our, in our community.
And it's because we're so used being on point.
I think for me, what happened was I was so used to being on point that I just never
occurred to me.
I was, and it's a curse.
My kids even, my mom, my dad, my brother, my sister, my assistants, my a couple of good
friends to kind of just start to turn the ship.
And when I was here last time, the ship had just barely started to turn.
I had just before we had drove down here, I had just quit drinking and at new years, which
was actually pretty easy.
And you know, I just, I hadn't used since we'd tired of the road trip.
And we saw you, like I think in the last half of it.
So, and I felt like, oh, I don't, obviously, I'm not addicted.
I can go three weeks or whatever it was.
And so, 2017 was the down and then 2018 was a bit of a leveling out.
And then I had a hard crash right before New Year's this year.
Or yeah, I guess, whatever, a couple months ago.
And that's when her, Kelly, and everyone said, if you don't go to rehab, you're going to
lose it all.
So, I have to back up because I know, sorry, man.
You jump like, you're like, oh, then it leveled and crashed and also we're good.
Because for me, what I want to see is I want to be able to recognize the warning signs better.
Right?
Yeah, I know.
And I'm, I'm, I'm glossing because it's me.
Did you get in trouble with your governmental job, with your political position?
Yeah, did people eventually say, because I remember at one point you missed a meeting.
You missed some seven meetings.
Yeah.
And all of a sudden it turned into a what's this guy's problem?
Yeah, so in politics, you know, as much as your own boss and, you know, for a
formidable level in Canada, I'd be, on Ontario because we don't have a party system at
that level.
Apparently you had your own party system.
Oh, I brought it.
I was party.
I, you know, I was the party.
The time when you're earning is when it's budget time.
And that's where you're fighting for your, your community get the dollars that it deserves
or the programs.
Pardon me.
Sorry, the programs that you believe in, you're there to say, I think that this needs
more money or this, you know, shift.
That's when you really make your money or make earn your pay as a politician, so to speak
and, and I just stopped showing up.
Like, you, you can mess up the whole year.
But if you're not there for budget, that's when people start going, hey man, what's
going on?
And a really good friend of mine who's one of the biggest meetings of the year.
And I missed the most important things that you have to do.
The most important things you have to do to represent the community that elected you and
you're just not showing up.
I just, yeah, just tell my won't be there today.
And my assistant is like, dude, I can't keep covering for you.
You know, and a good, a good friend of mine who's out of so a big political reporter in
Canada called me one day and he said, you need to meet me for lunch or you've just, like,
you got to say something or else you're going down.
And I was like, what?
So I met him for lunch and I didn't, and I really didn't want to.
And he's like, this is what's going to be said if you don't say anything.
And he's like, I'm telling you this has a friend.
I've known you since way before you were Joe D. Middick.
I've known you for, and I respect you and you've always been straight and you've stopped.
You're not being straight anymore and you're not being honest.
You need to not answer in questions.
And he's like, this is the world you're in now, dude.
This is how you have to handle it. And so coming down and doing your show last time was kind
of part of that come to Jesus.
So when you once you did that, did you do like a story with that reporter and say, yeah,
I've been, you did sort of a, I'm guilty.
But I only just told half the story.
Kind of like, like I was telling you.
So half extreme ownership.
I took half of the ownership.
Yeah, I admitted to drinking, but I couldn't, I still didn't have it in me to admit
to the drugs.
And I didn't want was the reaction of the public on support.
Mostly a lot of them.
I mean, the positive, the best part of our politics is no matter how awesome you think
you are, there's always someone, even if you are as awesome as you think you are, someone
out there is going to say no you're not.
And so I had 90% of the public say, you know, we understand and you've been through a
lot in the SNAT and we support you.
We're here for you and fight on and you're a fighter and, and it was love.
And I took it in and, and it fueled me honestly for a long time through 2018.
I really was trying and, and, you know, when I went back and did a few up to date.
Stop drinking.
Yeah, I could have you.
Yeah, I quit drinking.
We quit drinking both of us, quit drinking New Year's Eve.
So the interview is December, I want to say 18thish, 2017.
So New Year's Eve, we stopped drinking.
And then I spent the rest of the year trying to, to, to rest of 2018, especially after
the, I stopped wearing your shirts.
Oh, okay.
Good, right?
The good with the face, those are the shirts I have of yours.
I, I couldn't, like, in my mind, I, I didn't deserve it.
I couldn't even, like, your books are up on the shelf.
I couldn't even look at it.
My book is up on a shelf.
I couldn't look at it.
I, um, 2018, I, like, yeah, I stopped drinking and I admitted to my
problem, but then I had to deal with the emotional and psychological effects of
realizing I'm a complete loser in my mind, right?
Like, because as a kid, when you grew up, what was someone who did drugs, a
loser?
What was someone that could control himself?
You could control himself.
Do you know what I'm doing?
Okay, you know, I did, I managed to stop for a bit, but, you know, my
relationship with my, with my former partner was, was anything but, but
awesome.
And, you know, and it's not saying bad or good about me or her, but it's just,
like, that's what happens in a relationship, brings up.
I'm under massive scrutiny by the public and the media now in Ottawa.
I'm under, I'm under a lot of, just a lot of different stressors are coming in.
You know, I, um, I just, I just couldn't get anything together.
I managed to stop drinking and that was about my only success.
So does the coke make you feel like a momentary, like, okay, I've got this?
Or does it just cover it up?
It's funny how it makes you think of other things.
At first, you just, everything is awesome.
But eventually, it stops working and it starts being like, it's an opposite.
And it's, it's just like they say it is.
Eventually, it starts to try to rewire your brain.
I remember coming off, oxy cotton and it was harder than getting wounded.
And coming off coke isn't harder than getting wounded, but it's easier to get back on.
Does that make sense?
I probably quit three times a week for a while there.
Like I go to your three days and I'd be like, oh, I'm doing good today.
I didn't, and then the slightest like push like that.
I don't know if they can see it on the camera.
I'm pushing the water bottle.
See it?
Oh, there it is.
I'm pushing it.
The slightest push one half a degree off my axis on the compass.
And that was it.
That was it.
April and a bought, I didn't get, I didn't drink.
But it was like, I need it.
The slightest stressor and I would, and I'd go off.
And I just, I stopped having the ability to deal with life's, my life's problems.
And on top of it for a lot of that year, oh, no, well, twenty after I got back from
the road trip where I saw you guys last, I did put my legs back on.
But just like, not like just every time I felt like I was like, I'd go up a couple
runs in the ladder, I'd fall back a couple.
And I was making a progress, but not the kind of progress someone like me is used to.
Like I'm used to like being in control.
And if I don't want to do something, I don't do it.
And if I want to do something, I do it.
And this is one of those ones. And I remember when I admitted to my psychologist,
two thousand, I swindled two, two thousand nineish.
Because like I said, I picked up, I tried cocaine back in 2003, four after my first
road to Afghanistan.
And you know, and I was like, oh, okay, I was like, cool, whatever.
I didn't really do it.
Think about it for a long time after.
But she said, that one, that one can get you.
She would just be careful.
Oh, she actually said, watch out.
But this is in 2009 after I'm wounded.
She said, well, what do you do to strap to really stress?
I'm like, well, you know, on the weekend, my girlfriend, I will drink and do a little.
And she's like, what?
Coke.
She's like, yeah, you have a real casual way of saying this.
So, well, sorry, man.
It's my life, but it's see, because I admitted to her.
Because I, like, no matter what, you need someone
that you need someone you can talk to.
I have, I've always believed that you know what to sometimes people develop
personalities that they manage to figure out how to make things happen.
Right?
So, for instance, some people, they just have a way of talking to you.
You ever known someone that can, like, say something really horrible, but they,
but then they say something else, they kind of like can recover from it.
You don't feel all that bad or you get, so it sounds like maybe you develop
the technique of being like just talking about this in such a way that people go, oh, you know,
if he's talking about this, this is such controlled way and it's not that big of a deal.
You know what?
It's probably not that big of a deal.
Because that's how you're talking about it to me.
That's how I talked about it to myself.
Yeah.
Because I even had a military doctor, and I don't even know if this is a real thing.
Tell me, I have an anti-addictive personality, right?
You're getting the most, and this is what it's called.
You're getting the biggest reinforcements for your bad behavior.
But everything you do, you win and succeed even though you're doing stuff wrong.
Imagine if I'd done everything sober.
You know what?
But yeah, anyway, she said that, and that, and that, and then, you know what?
I didn't even realize the, I don't even know what word to use.
Like the fact that I almost lost my career in the 90s because I was with a friend who bought cocaine.
And you can read that in the book, if, and I think we talked about it.
Yeah, we talked about it.
But, and I didn't, I'd never done it at that point, and I didn't want to do it,
but I didn't want my friend to go alone into some sleazy, bark bar, and anyway.
And here I am.
Which is just all rationalization, by the way.
Yeah, that's 100% rationalization.
That was a 97, here I am, in 2017, losing everything to cocaine.
Losing everything.
And I thought oxy cotton was my problem, right?
Or the booze.
And it turns out, like, I just, I couldn't slay this dragon, you know?
So, you know, 2018 was a lot of up and down, up and down, up and down.
And, and yeah, I gloss over it because it's, there's too much to talk about on podcast.
But you and I would message back every now and then, and even the last show you said,
Yeah, oh, yeah, I went through my, you text, and, and I saw you said the, and me,
oh, flanged me in this, and that, twenty-nine, eighteen was me figuring out how to regroup and reorganize.
And, and I'm still, and I realized too, dude, like, anyone who's been wounded in action or hurt in life,
recovery is, it takes, it takes, it's taken me 12 years, and I'm not even recovered from getting blown up yet.
You know, right before the show we were talking about, and I think we probably talked about the first time as you're,
because I recognize this a long time ago.
I was prepared to die or get that awesome wound.
I can brag about it at the barbecue when I'm old.
We sent a lot of bandages and body bags that I've got to stand as a, as a force.
And I think you guys did to it first.
We didn't even think about all the career ending injuries that are possible, you know,
because we are draftees.
They were at the greatest generation work professional soldiers.
I saw myself retiring at, I don't know what the age is here, but probably 55,
Grizzled old sergeant or worn officer, you know, go and then teach, teach shooting at the Canadian Army sniper school,
you know, as a, as a contractor or something, or I don't know.
I just never saw myself not being a soldier.
And, you know what, I realized this the other day, the politics was a bandaid, the TV shows, the books, the podcasts,
these are all part of me finding a way, but I'm back, you know, I'm instructing shooting again,
you know, with some of my friends, I'm back to advocating for veterans again, you know, which I can have time for.
I'm trying to work, I quit, I could have run again for politics and one easily, even with all my troubles.
I, I, I didn't want to.
I want to be like, Jocco, I want to work for myself.
No, dude, listen.
Well, I don't work for myself.
But when you were, I think even the first or definitely the second time you came down and you're telling me about all this,
all the stuff that you have to put up with every day, all these people you're doing with, and I just said, bro,
why don't you just not do that job again because the job satisfaction that you're getting out of it is none.
I mean, maybe you're getting a little bit, but basically you're knocking any real job satisfaction.
You're having to say things that you don't really feel like saying, you're having to talk to people that you really don't feel like talking to.
And meanwhile, you're dealing with the fact that you lost your legs in Afghanistan every freaking day is a,
is a, is, is, is, has presents challenges anyways.
And then you're presenting yourself with challenges that you don't enjoy.
Because it's one thing to say, oh, I'm going to go, do, do, do, do today and it's a challenge,
but that's a challenge I enjoy or, oh, I'm going to go for run today, but it's a challenge I enjoy.
It's another thing to say, I'm going to go do this challenge that I do not like,
and I don't get anything out of.
Yeah.
That to me was was, it was the first time we were being to me.
It was the first time we met and we were at Echo's brothers company where your podcast was.
And you, your advice rang, you know, Kelly and I had a long talk before I announced I wouldn't run again.
And she said the same thing. She says, remember what Jocco said, the squeeze isn't worth the juice or like that's the way she put it.
But that's, she was, because I, when I got home, I told her what we talked about and Kelly and I were just friends back then and stuff,
but, you know, it, that was a big, my sister, my baby sister actually.
She said, you know, I knew you wouldn't last in politics, not, and she, and it wasn't an insult.
She said, you're just, you're not, you're not the right person.
Like your personality isn't, isn't for the political side of things.
Yeah.
And, and I want to work for myself and I love my podcast is back up.
We've done a couple episodes, you know, we're still figuring out Kelly and I want to do online coaching now for people.
Like we've got some hard miles between us.
So we want to try and help people avoid some of the things we've gone through and I'm, and we're starting to like wander.
I'm becoming like the guy in, we're, we, we, I should say, because we're a team.
We're like the guy in Kung Fu. We just wander, we're just going to wander.
We're just going to wander the earth and, and bank our own schedule.
And, but we, you know what, we do more work in a day now.
Like it doesn't seem like work, but we, we get more accomplished in a day or two now.
And we use two in two weeks because it's for ourselves.
And it's just, and it's fun now.
But I mean, when we're just starting, but I mean, you know, back to the story.
I just, um, I lost myself and I finally have come.
I think close to full circle back to who I was, except, you know, I'm 42.
And I accept that I lost my legs and I accept that my career ended and I accept that I'm a complete mess up if I let myself be.
And I accept that I'm a human being because of it.
Because I don't know anyone who doesn't have any flaws, but you're your extreme ownership and the way I,
I've always, even before I had a term extreme ownership, ask anyone who knows me.
I might not tell you all the things about me or about my life, but I'm not going to bullshit you.
And I'm not going to lie about things that don't matter.
And I know everything matters if something can matter if you're not lying about something because it doesn't matter.
But there's some things that aren't under your business.
But I even, you know, anyone that knows me knows that I don't bullshit for the most part, you know, because, you know, sometimes I'll mess with it with you, just for fun.
But, and, and that's just the way I want to live my life and, and I was bullshitting myself, you, you, her, my kids, the public,
all the people that supported me supported me for half truth.
This is why I told you, your listeners deserve to have Jody Middick come back and say, hey guys, because a lot of your listeners grow like dude.
I, you know, I don't want to tear up or anything because I'm a man or, you know, whatever, but I, I get a message, minimum one a week since the last show, minimum.
Often it's four, five, ten, hey man, heard you on Joco, thanks for being so truthful about your problems and it helped me quit drinking here.
It helped me get back into Jim and it did, and I'm like, fine, I had to come back and just say hey guys, like, you're, you're back in the gym.
I haven't been to the gym since October 2016, you know, I know you can't believe it, but, uh, good genetics.
But, I mean, I'm just saying, like, I felt like a fraud dude and I hated it and like she would watch me like just, I would get a message and I'd be like, you know, I'd like throw the phone and she'd be like, you get another message from someone who heard John Joco and I'm like, yeah, and my podcast is in order to be found in the book.
I could have made twice as much money on that book if I had been put together enough up here to tour with it more, to go out with it and I still could have done my job.
But I was compromising myself so much on the, on the, on the front end that on the back and I couldn't keep it up, you know, so I had to, it was like, do do politics? Well, or do the book well, can't do both well.
I stopped being able to multitask and everything and I just wanted to come on the show and say, sorry to you guys and all the listeners and just say, and I know a lot of them will say, you don't know us, I owe you.
And for me, treat, please, you know, I owe you guys.
You guys supported me, but you deserve the truth and the truth is I was doing a lot more than drinking and I did 30 days in rehab at the end of the, when did I go in?
Right after Christmas and I am back on a path of righteousness. If you want to call it that, I am trying to atone.
I'm trying to rebuild some bridges I burned and I've had people not return my call and I don't blame them.
I was, I was, I was that guy you see in the movies for a good solid three, three months there at the end of the year. I could, I could, I went full, I, I don't want to say that word, but I went, I just, I went full, full dummy.
And I, and I realized it and you know, so that's anyway why I'm here.
Was there a point, what, what led you to say that you were going to go to rehab?
Well, I mean, for the cliche is, you know, what was rock bottom at, what point did you look yourself and say, damn, I got to get my shit together now.
My girls needed me. Kelly needed me, my mom needed me, my dad, my, if, if everyone in your life is telling you,
there's a problem, there's a problem.
And they managed to get through the static that was in my head and Kelly has had some serious health issues that weren't being helped by my behavior, just say the least.
She suffered, do you mind if I told them? So she had a historic to me, right?
In twenty, twenty, seventeen, which is all part of the story, and she almost died on the operate, or she then got sepsis and then almost died.
And at the time, our relationship wasn't an open thing.
And I couldn't be there for her and then my leg stopped working and we couldn't be there for each other even in private.
And, and, and then so that was twenty, seventeen.
So she's trying to look after me and herself and her and her own relationship changing. But anyway, so she had, she had a cardiac moment from the stress of watching me destroy myself.
So Kelly had a cardiac moment.
My daughters were crying, you know, where's daddy? Where are you always? And then you're always late to get us or, and then when we're with you, you sleep.
And, and my mom, you know, for my mom and my dad to agree on something, which is Jody needs help was another light bulb.
And I was still in here somewhere. Like, Jody was still there.
And trying is best and and being so self reflective and if you ever have to go in through anything like this, it's again, this is something.
You can't, no one can describe. And everybody's is different. And now you're looking for the rock bottom. I had a couple.
And every one of them was in my, and from my point of view, my relationship with the people I love was on thin ice.
You know, if my best friend, my soul mate and my future wife, the person I want to marry, is saying,
my health cannot sustain this. So I will have to leave you because from from my own health. Never mind you, your, my health.
That's when I was like, okay, well, obviously, obviously, I got it. This isn't working.
What does it look like day to day when you're doing so much cocaine that it's causing all these issues? Because I actually don't know. You know,
I probably never will know hopefully. Yeah. And if you do, I'll fly down here and we'll figure it out. But that's the thing is, you honestly believe everyone's against you.
You honestly believe there's no right move you can make, except calling that guy who has the stuff.
And then, and even though I got to a point where I knew exactly where doing the coke would lead and I didn't care.
I'd waste another day or another. Usually it was three days or were completely wasted.
Because what, what does that look like when you waste your days? You buy a bunch of cocaine.
You do a bunch and then, you know, you can only do so much right before you just feel like you physically just can't do more than you can.
Or you could, and you know, and because of who I am and the way my mind works, I'm always aware of, okay, there's ODEANG as possible.
There's just your body can physically give out if you're, like your body needs sleep, right? We're trained for that, like we're trained like, and so I didn't have all this information.
And also, you know, I knew a guy who is Canadian special operations regiment. I didn't really know him that well, but in his mind, and he would break, you would say, I know what, I'm going to, if I'm going to die in a room for the cocaine and hookers.
And he did, he did it to him, but he wanted to. I didn't want to die, I have no interest in dying.
So, you know, I have all these factors and then it's weird, but at near the end, I was, oh, sorry, and here's another rock bottom moment.
I started buying booze again.
Because booze and coke, like, one brings you up and then the other one brings you down.
And they kind of, that's why they go together so well.
If that's what you're looking for, but don't kids, okay?
So when you do a bunch of coke, what do you, when you say you waste three days, what are you doing?
Nothing. It's not like hyperproductive. Hey, I'm going to go right now.
You know, I've got not when you're in the state of mind. I was at first, yeah, a little bit,
would take you through the weekend and you'd get your email inbox will be empty and might not make.
Some of your replies might not make a lot of sense, but you get through them. You might read that book,
you've been wanting to do it and you might binge watch, like friends or something.
You know, I binge watched a lot of mindless TV on Coke, like friends.
How I met your mother, the showhouse, scrubs, things that didn't matter, because I couldn't watch.
I love documentaries, but I couldn't watch them because they made me too sad.
And then I couldn't watch ones that were about people like success stories because I'd feel like a failure.
So I watched all this meaningless TV. And that's what I would do.
She'd come by and I'd be watching episode 300 of How I Met Your Mother.
I have a piece of, I have a pizza box there with one slice, with one bite out of it.
And maybe I was drinking like a protein shake or something.
You know, because I had to hide, you got to hide right, bro. You got to hide right.
You got to hide right. And so I, and she'd show up with a six pack of gatorade and alpha brain or like another generic new tropic.
Because I was the thing, I was like, oh, as long as I got my new tropics.
Yeah, but, um, and so that's three days.
And because I wasn't wearing my legs, I literally sat on the couch, like look at my posture right now.
This is from sitting on the couch for like a year straight. Like I got to like work now.
You know, and I, uh, and yeah, man, you just, some of your behavior is inexplainable.
And I'll tell you right now, I did some, some behavior that I'm just like, you know, I don't know.
It's, it's, I don't know if I'll, and then I wasn't evil or anything, but I was not a good guy.
I was not a good guy. I'm lucky to have her next to me. I'm lucky to have that my kids still talked to me.
I'm lucky my mom didn't disown me, you know.
Um, and at the end of the day, they all came together and I, I sucked it up.
I manned up, I took ownership and I went to rehab and I threw my, I did what I did in my book.
You know, that, that line where I say, I went back to, to training.
Like I got sent to, as punishment, I got sent back to the battle school.
Yeah.
Um, and I had a choice. I could be the asshole that I was the first time.
Or I could show up in shape with my boots polished in my uniform iron and be the best candidate.
And I did that and I went to rehab and I did that.
And then within 30 days, they were offering me a job.
I got one more question about the bottom.
So you, you basically, this happens for three days.
You buy enough cocaine for three days.
And then you're watching TV, you're eating pizza, you're sitting around.
You're just in a bad place.
Then you run out of cocaine and then when you are not high anymore from the cocaine,
are you like, okay, I just want to get more cocaine.
Is that basically what happens?
Um, usually you go through a period of self-loathing.
Okay, I was going to say, at any point, when you, when you, when you sober up and you go,
Dang, why, why am I doing this?
Like, I mean, yeah.
Yeah, a lot, but also it's a joke in the community, or those that in that per take,
because it's called the cocaine blues, because your system has been in high-jacked and hard-wired
and it's kind of like when you nitrous your engine, right?
And you just nitrous it till it red lines.
Eventually there's nothing left.
So that's what happens.
As soon as you let the nitrous out, the engine kind of like goes, it has no power for a while.
And until it cools off, and that's basically what you go through.
And the only way to remedy it, if you let's you power through the three to three,
two, three days or the week, depending on how long your binge was,
till your serotonin levels come back, and it takes, it can take,
and at this point, I was abusing for a year, right?
Like, steady.
Well, actually, by the end of last year, it was two years, steady.
Twenty, seventeen, twenty, eighteen are basically a right off for me.
As much as I got certain things done a lot of it was a right off,
but you go through, as soon as it's done, you're like, I'm never doing this again.
Oh my god, I can't eat coke.
I'd call her and I'd be like, I'm sorry, I can't believe I did it.
She'd be like, all right, well, I kind of heard that before, you know,
at first it was optimism.
Okay, good, yeah, we'll work on this together, and then,
but then, you know what?
And then I like I said, you know, remember when I said an inch,
off your as a myth or whatever?
Now it's like a millimeter.
And you're like, all right, and unfortunately the guy delivers.
You know, so you don't even have to get, you don't even have to get dressed.
You just come to the door and like, you know, and then put it on my tap.
And, you know, and yeah, and even when, and when that guy says,
are you sure that's another indication?
Like when the guy who makes money off you being an idiot,
thinks you're an idiot, you got to start thinking about life choices.
And, you know, I did it.
I went through a man.
Again, I'm here to tell the truth to you and the listeners
because they're watching us if they're on YouTube.
Like, I can't hide it.
And to pretend I just had some issues.
Like a lot of people you hear in the media, right?
Oh, they're having some issues.
Just say what it is, man.
It's just what soon as I went on the show in Ottawa,
the same guy who came to me and I did the, and I went on a show
and I said it, I said I did cocaine.
I felt like a thousand pounds man off my shoulders.
And he's like, I did not expect that.
I said, I know man, and that's how much of a bullshit artist
I became and I hate it.
I hate it.
My ex even said once he said, you weren't a sneaky bullshitter before.
You know, you got to stop this.
And you know, it's, you know, the extreme ownership comes in here
because even when I, you know, when I first back 20 years ago
when I first got sent back to training as punishment for being an idiot,
I owned it.
Anyone who said, hey, you've got to go to rest in Chicago.
I'd be like, well, I didn't have it, but yeah, yeah, that was me.
Because what are you going to do?
Say you know.
Like, you know, and I always tried to live that way
and I lost myself to this stuff.
And I was stopping honest with everyone, especially myself.
And that's saying that you got to look after yourself
before you can look after anybody else is a 150% true.
You know, even, and Kelly even learned some lessons here.
Because she didn't take enough time to recover from her surgery.
And it almost killed her again, you know.
And she was worried about that work and her kids.
And this, you got to worry about yourself.
And again, man, I'm on like a redemption to her almost, I feel like.
And I love it.
I love it.
Like we were, we were, we were, we were.
I figured we were, but, you know, somebody said something.
I went, oh, yeah, I just got to rehab for cocaine.
And they went, oh, okay.
So coffee, because I think they wanted to get a drink.
And I'm like, yeah, I just got to rehab.
You know, it's a great conversation starter or tender.
So it's talked to me about rehab.
What goes on there?
You know, it's a whole lot of just being told to think about how you're living your life.
I did, I did, usually for cocaine, they want 90 days.
I was only willing to commit to 30.
Because I still had a little bit of like that ego going and stuff.
And I did the 30 and I did okay.
And like I said, they were offering me a job or like, you know, we were in talks about maybe working there.
But you know, it's funny how like once you open your mind to possibilities,
the way forward is obvious.
I have no business being in this town called Brockville, where the rehab place was.
But if I wasn't there, Kelly and I wouldn't have found this building that when I was sending you,
where it which inspired us to remind us that two years ago when we first moved out of our house or three years ago, no, holy crap.
Almost three years ago now when we first moved out from our old relationships and we're trying to establish our own.
My goal before I got elected was I wanted to open a gym.
And I wanted to build a community of positive people.
And I wanted to like wake up every morning, have a coffee, like, I don't know why,
but in my mind, I have an image of me in shorts with a long sleeve t-shirt,
opening up like a garage door and having like people come in with gym bags.
Like, hey, Jodi, how's it going? Good morning, sir.
You know, like, and not sir, like, hey, sir, but like, because I'm like, I'm like the leader or like, I'm the, I'm the pop-up bear of this group.
That's what we Kelly and I call ourselves mama and pop-up bear.
And even in rehab, they started calling me pop-up bear because I'd be like, I was almost twice as old as most of the people there.
Most of them were like late teens early, 20s, maybe 30, some of them were 30,
but, you know, even the older people, like there was like one woman there in her 60s.
And she'd be like, hey, pop-up bear because that's just who we are.
Like, you're the same, you're like me, but like, and Kelly's the same.
And we just, we want to look after people. We can't help it, right?
You know, and the rehab people would look after yourself.
But anyway, Kelly comes and picks me up and I'm allowed, I can give in a day pass.
You know, like, oh, they let you go out for the day if you're good.
If you're good boy, I go, they let you go out on rehab.
And so we're driving around that so when I saw that building, I think I sent you picture too.
Yeah, nice.
1905, this thing was a woodmill, a beautiful, big wooden beams, like a beautiful building.
Unfortunately, it would have been more to repair it than it would have been to buy it.
But it put our minds on this path to what a great area that is.
The fact that we want to go back on this path of building this community.
So we want to build, so we're still doing it.
And we should, you should, you should, Kelly and I drive a lot because we have our best meetings.
Our business meetings are when we're driving.
And so we want to open what's called HQ and it's going to be a fitness wellness center.
And, and it's going to be more of a community than anything.
Kind of like, if you want to just come chill, you can come chill.
We're going to have, I want to have a library. I want to have a podcast studio.
We have classrooms and, you know, and we're going to just be there to help you live a better life.
And, and the best way for me to live a good life is to help you live a good life.
And I've realized that now, like even when I was in my military unit, like, even if I wasn't hungry,
I'd grab extra food and bring it back to the boys.
You know, if I, if I realized like there was something shiny around to be had,
I'd like find a way to get my hands on it for the for the team and stuff, you know.
I'm my happiest when I'm looking out for others.
And I know, and at the same time, though, you know, they're looking out for you.
And, and it feels good to have friends and family and, you know, a tribe around you, right?
Like, you know, we're tribal animals.
And I, you know, do you know what, date fletcher?
He was Joe Rogan's daughter.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
For sure.
Um, well, I don't know him personally, but I'm at, so I'm at, I'm at Tate in 2013 when I did a piece for advice
at the University of Southern California about how they do virtual reality to treat PTSD.
It's on Motherboard if you want to Google it.
You know, I mean, I look pretty cool in it.
But anyway, um, so Tate, I was down here and I had to met Tate when I was here.
I did his podcast and then this, you know, so this is going back six or seven years.
And, um, I've never met Rogan, but I mean, eventually I might.
I mean, I know enough people that know him.
But anyway, the point is, I was driving around with Tate and, uh,
we're here in California to do a course at Doose Jim and LA, uh, which Tate introduced me to the owner of.
And this guy is just such a cool dude and he rents such a nice Jim and the atmosphere.
So we're going to take his seminar.
And, and I, and I said, man, I wish I had what you have here in California any, and Tate.
This is a mind-chain or a life-changing moment.
And I had to go through all this to get here.
He said, build it.
And I said, uh, what?
He said, if you want it, build it.
And I said, okay.
And it's taken me since 2013 to get back to here and go through all these other things to realize, like,
uh, I got to build it.
That's why not going into politics again means I can do whatever I want.
Like you said, man, like you're right.
Like it's tough.
Like it's, there's moments of great happiness in politics, but unless that's what you want to do.
Like it's hard.
It's very hard.
And guys, like us, we're self-motivated to do things and waiting around for others to do their thing.
It's just easier to do your own thing, you know?
Especially, you know, like what's, I know he was a German, but in World War II, his orders were find an objective in kill it.
That was his orders at all times.
Like if you don't hear from me, find something and destroy it.
That's basically the mission statement that Kelly and I have put before us.
So I was like, we want to build this place, build a community, and live out of the good life.
And I never want to be the guy I was for the last two years.
And, but I'm, I don't want to say glad, but it's an experience that I've learned a lot from.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, it does make sense.
It does make sense.
It's sort of like the thing I told the Sam Harris when he, when he was telling me that it's hypocritical for me,
because I say war is horrible and awful, but I always say, it's a best experience in my life.
And he says, you're hypocritical for that?
Yeah, and then, well, rightfully so, you can't say something's awesome and then say it's horrible.
And I said, well, it's like this, and I asked him if he had ever known anyone that had had cancer and survived.
And he said, yes, and I said, a lot of those people say, I'm glad it happened because they get this different perspective of life
and different perspective of the world and different value of life and different value of the world.
And so even though you wouldn't wish it on somebody, you're happy that you had to go through it.
And so that sounds like a similar situation.
Well, it's, I always tell people, I had a great time at war, right up to the last step, because it's a horrible thing to do,
but it's what I trained, I volunteered to be there.
You volunteered to be there.
Like, I always say, you know, people, because a lot of people say they're sorry for me losing my feet.
And I say, you know, if I was a Russian draftee and Afghanistan, yeah, be so, feel sorry for me.
But I was exactly where I wanted to be.
And the fact that one of my boys didn't die because I stepped on that, you know, like, if the guy in front of me had stepped on it, I'd be dead.
If the guy in front of him had stepped on it, he'd be dead and I'd be like, we don't know.
I'm glad I'm just a one that stepped on it.
But yeah, like I loved doing my job.
It was a great, it was an amazing job.
You know, and the people that you're around are some of the greatest human beings you're ever going to know on the planet.
So that's what I want to rebuild. I want to rebuild this brotherhood and the sisterhood, this community of, of, of, of, like-minded individuals in the saying surround yourself with people that make you better.
That's not what happens when you're on cocaine.
So, so at some point you went from this mindset of you could see where the future was.
You could see that cocaine is going to ruin your future and you didn't care.
And at some point during this, you said to yourself, okay, I see the future with cocaine.
It's terrible and I'm not going to go there.
Yeah. Well, it was life without Kelly, it was life without the kids, it was life without real friends.
You know, like, even people that love you to death can't be around you because, you know, you're just not.
It's just, it's, it's hard, you know, and I've had a few buddies go down, and on, and it mostly booze, like booze is the most common one because it's really available out there.
So, you know, go down to the store and get it for so many years.
Yeah. You know, like, listen, I get a lot of flack, but I'm a fan of the, and I know safe injection site is like, people don't agree with, there's no such thing as safe injection. Okay, I get it.
But the point is, I'm forgiving the option of a place that's safer than a dumpster to shoot up with heroin.
If it means we might save that life, right?
And I'm also like, we'd just encounter federally, we'd legalize marijuana.
If it was up to me, anything people want would be regulated taxed and taxed, right?
Because if a bottle of jacked anil's hurts, hurts echo if he drinks it or hurt, like, if it hurts us, there's someone who can be held accountable and we can trace that right down to the barrel that it was brewed in or made, I don't know, whiskey is fermented, distilled.
Distilled, there's the word, and where as if a guy shoots up behind a dumpster and dies, I don't know who to go after and who to, like, who's fault is it?
It was bad product or a good product, which is usually what gives them an overdose.
But you know, like, there's just the path to, you know, like, A, A is there because we can get booze at every corner, you know?
And so we have gambling sites. If you go into a casino, you're actually warned on the door.
Like a pack of cigarettes says, if you smoke this, it'll be addictive and it could hurt you.
I just think we need to start talking more about things. And so for me, like, you know, I don't, like, I don't know, man.
I just, I saw that I wouldn't have the good things in life because of this one thing that had taken over.
And I, my cousin actually in 2017, in 2017, my cousin who I grew up with, killed himself, not with, and I don't mean killed himself as in, like committed suicide.
He just drugged himself to death. And he was addicted to, if it was addictive, he was addicted to it.
And we never, I never figured it out and I had to stop hanging out with them.
And that was what was happening to me too.
My, you know, we call it, you know, whether you think it's weird or fufu or whatever you want to call it,
we do Kellyanne, I do believe or soulmates.
And yes, that's weird and fufu. Yes, but you can do it.
Yeah, well, thank you, right? And that's the thing. So if you're, if the person who, you think you were put on the planet to be with says,
I can't be with you the way you are. That's, hey, man, like you got to take a serious look.
And so it sounds like that really was the critical thought in your head that the person that you cared the most about,
Yeah, at this moment in time is literally going to walk away.
She had to.
And I saw it. I saw it. I was like, I had to go to rehab to give her a break and to give my kids a break.
When you were having to rehab, did you say to yourself, I'm going there.
Did you go in there with the attitude of the polished your boots?
Yeah, no, sorry.
I didn't finish that. Sorry. I have an ADHD if you can't tell.
But I went in there, polished boots, pressed uniform.
I like I had my books. I made my bed.
It was all the basics. Get back to the basics, right? We even talked about this the first time I was on your show.
I shaved my head. I started doing some, you know, started working out a little bit, trying to get back into the little bit of shape.
I started caring about what I ate again. I started taking my vitamins. I started, you know, and I went in there.
And I know exactly what I'm like when I want to portray that tough guy attitude.
And that's what I did to keep people away at first.
Because at first, you've ever been arrested?
Yes. Were you happy about it? No.
Yeah.
So I kind of went in like I'd been arrested like I was the first time.
Not the second time that is in the book, but the first time anyway.
Like I said, I don't put everything in the book.
But anyway, you're not very happy and you don't need friends.
So I didn't go in there to make friends.
So I was a wall for the first week, right?
But that let me concentrate on exactly what I was there to do if that makes sense.
And so as that as as as as I was there to get better and do rehab got,
I don't want to say easier, but I got better at it because it's, you know,
It's a skill that you are actually taught in rehab is how to be better.
That's what rehab is.
Are teaching you how to be better again.
So what kind of skills are they teaching with?
Wake up on time.
I know this sounds we by like, you know, when you're addicted.
Doesn't sound weird to me.
I believe I'm just like, it's like based training almost.
Make it up.
Make your bed, you know, come to breakfast on time.
So if you weren't at breakfast, you lost your ability to make a phone call that night.
And then if you missed any classes during the day, you know, you would have privileges,
You know, given or taken as as the day or the week went by.
Now you're you're you're at a place where you pay money to go.
So you think it'd be how do you take privileges from someone, but they do.
They do.
I was like, I'm a grown-ass man.
If I want to make a phone call, I will.
They're like, no, you won't.
I'm like, god damn it, you're right.
Because I signed that waiver.
But I, I have tried so hard that I got to like they were bringing me in.
You know, I'm not, I, anyway, I should probably shouldn't say too much.
But like, within, you know, I was only there 30 days, but within about, I'd say 15, 20 days.
I was someone that was turned to by the other clients.
And someone that some of these staff would turn to to like,
For backup in a certain situation or like I said, I went pop a bear.
And, but when I first got there, some of the other clients told me like,
When I first got there, they were like, this guy is a murderer.
He's going to kill us all.
Like, because I was just so focused and I had this look, and I, you know,
I know, you know, we're, we get up in front of troops and try to, you know,
We got to be the toughest looking guy there, some of them, you know,
And so I know how to do it.
But I did that to, for myself more than anything.
Because I went, okay, I'm back in basic training.
I have to learn how to be a decent human being and how to look after myself again.
And man, and they took you through check list.
A lot of my personality flaws stem from childhood, you know,
And I found that out like what?
Like stuff I don't want to talk about frankly.
And, you know, just things that, once you read the literature,
It's, oh, that is obvious.
So you can, you can, and this is a conversation that we've been having.
Sorry, I didn't mean to be so abrupt. I'm not just pouring.
But I mean is I now understand.
And that's for me understanding like most guys, like us and girls.
If I understand the cause, I can, I can deal with the action, right?
So if you don't understand, then it's just chaos.
But if there's an explanation as a y, my mind goes there,
Which then causes me these actions.
Ah, now I can go back and deal with the cause of that behavior.
Is that me, is that better way of putting it?
No, it does make sense. And this is something that I just talked about on another podcast.
But the first time I kind of recognize that there was these patterns and protocols for psychological issues
Is honestly when Jordan Peterson came on for the first time.
And he was, I was explaining how in the warrior kid book,
How the kid gets over the fear of the water.
And he goes, oh, yeah, that's a, that's a protocol.
It's called exposure therapy. And this is what it does.
Psychological, this is how it works.
And I just figured that out from just life, right?
And then I realized that that there's protocols for problems.
And people have psychological problems.
There's a, and it's just, and I was using the term brain mechanic.
But somebody on Twitter said something better, which is mind mechanic.
So if I would have been told, hey, oh,
Psychologists in the psychologists, they're called a mind mechanic.
And they go in there and when there's problems,
they know how to fix those problems.
I love that.
Yeah. And what, but when you're, well, like me,
You're just thinking, oh, that's just a bunch of,
What'd you say earlier, fool, fool, something?
It'd be, it'd be, yeah, it's much, it'd be,
Yeah, it's much, it'd be, yeah, it'd be stuff that you don't really know what's going on.
But then you talk to, or, or, or in talking to Jordan,
I heard him say, oh, and this is a problem that you would see.
And this is how you'd fix that problem.
Here's another problem over here.
And here's how you'd fix that problem.
And the really strange thing is it all lined up with just my natural instincts
when somebody had this kind of problem, okay, here's what you need to do in that scenario.
I would just know that from dealing with a bunch of guys over the past,
you know, 30 years that were having issues, be like, hey, man.
Oh, you got this problem here's what you need to do.
Move, do this, do that.
Yeah.
And, but a psychologist, a mind mechanic, can look at it and go,
Here's what's going on.
Here's what this root ties into.
And here's how you stop this, this cycle of
negativity and how you move it in a positive direction.
And that's exactly what rehab is.
Let's find the, like, you're not a bad person for having these thoughts and actions and reactions.
Because, you know, and that's, and then, oh, here's why.
Oh, okay, here's where the pattern developed when you were like five or ten,
or then this happened.
And your buddy that we were talking about before the show, J Redmond.
Yeah, honestly, I'd love to talk to him because the sounds like him and I probably had very similar child.
You get it.
And then similar careers.
You guys definitely had similar careers.
The fact that you got sent back to whatever that, that battle school,
and J Redmond got sent a Ranger school, you know, and then it's, it's very,
you guys definitely had some similar.
I think I was a little more humble than him from the sound of it, but I don't know,
but I, but I was still out, like, I'm a close friend.
I almost got, I almost got kicked out of snipers for being arrogant.
It's, it's a close race, and I said, and it was because I didn't say,
I said, sir, to the Sergeant Major instead of calling him by his first name,
because he'd like to be called by his first name by the snipers,
because then it showed he was bros with us.
Whatever.
No, I'm not seeing him.
Am I showing my arrogance maybe right now?
Yes.
Yeah.
No, but it's, it's, but that's the thing is J Redmond, you know,
he went through all that.
His book is phenomenal because I'd love to read it.
It just comes right out and explains all these mistakes that he made.
And he did a great job redeem himself and turn into a great, great,
great frog, right?
And that's what I wanted, and that's my job, my book, I'm flinching.
It wasn't a, let's make Jody look like a hero.
It was like, let's be honest and clear about how, you know,
you start one once placed and end up in another,
but you have to, you know, you have to realize it,
mistakes happen.
And, you know, being 40, you know, by 42 as a kid,
I thought I'd have it all together.
But, you know, I'm still learning,
I'm still, you know, like, I call myself a student, a student of the human condition,
because I feel like I'm always learning.
And I will never, you know,
no one's ever in expert on anything, I don't think.
And if you click, thank you, I mean, you've stopped learning in my opinion.
I don't know.
I know we're going a little off.
What do the, what do the withdrawal,
how bad is the withdrawal from?
Because I know, you know,
I think the only thing that you,
not supposed to withdraw on your own is alcohol,
because you can actually die.
If you're an alcohol addict and you stop cold turkey,
you can die.
If you're deep in, do it, you're going to have,
I quit,
oxy cotton cold turkey.
And when I told my doctor, he said I could have had seizures,
and stuff and could have died.
But I wasn't on that high dose then either,
so it's,
what about when you quit drinking?
I didn't.
Not that big of a deal.
Yeah, the alcohol, you got to drink a lot a lot.
Yeah, I like to drink it.
To be in that situation.
Yeah, like these guys who were drinking
the whole bottle of vodka every day.
Okay, I don't like that.
They gave us the movie leaving Las Vegas with Nick Cage.
No.
That guy, like he would go grocery shopping,
and his every day and his cart was full of booze.
Which is actually more common than I thought.
Like it's crazy.
Someone that gets it after with the, with the vodka.
And the vodka for some reason,
because they think you can't smell it.
Yeah.
But I mean, if you drink enough, you can smell it.
But, but the withdrawals were,
is it mostly psychological?
Yeah, it's not because it's psychological.
There's some physical at first.
I went through a period where my body was like detoxing.
So like I was getting these weird zits on,
in like weird places and stuff like that.
And, um,
is this from the cocaine?
Yeah, it's from the impurities that they get mixed with.
But then, as far as detox,
you're talking about detoxing from cocaine.
Yeah.
Sorry.
But I mean, it's more just like letting your brain
relive, relive itself.
So I went in there.
I stopped taking any Tylenol.
Like I don't take.
I'm trying to,
and I killing and I are working on this.
We're trying to, like,
we're almost sugars almost gone.
I don't take any pills.
I keep going away from the mic.
Um, where were we babe?
We were in West Virginia doing some training at,
or not training.
We were doing some familiarization
at a place, uh,
built for three letter agencies.
And, um,
my leg was just on fire because of the day we'd had.
And she gave me two Tylenol and two Alive.
And I passed out, like,
like that.
I didn't, I know that was in the morning.
Yeah.
Sorry.
I felt back to sleep because I woke up with the pain.
Anyway,
that's what I want.
I remember the first time I took a Tylenol
and I was in, after I joined the army.
And we're on exercise, maybe a year later.
And I was in the woods.
My back was a little sore.
So the medic gave me two extra strength Tylenol.
I just never had Tylenol before.
Because I just, you know, I was 17, 18.
And I took it.
And my body felt like it was on unicorns and sunshine.
For, like, three days.
And that was from two extra strength Tylenol.
When you're doing blow and, and drinking a lot,
like, you're, you're that breakfast, you know, to get over it.
And, and I like that if I take one Tylenol now, my body is okay.
You know, because I'm a big guy.
So I need, you know, I usually go extra strength.
I want to take, I want to be able to take regular strength.
Remember that?
Everybody took regular strength anything.
You know, I have a coffee.
And I feel it.
It's not just like, a whatever anymore.
So that's kind of what I'm on.
A bit of a mission.
It get back to really basic food and, and, and liquid intake, you know,
like the cold brew that I was drinking when we got here, like, there's nothing else in it.
It's just coffee.
You know, that had the nitrous gin in it, right?
But there's no sugar and no, you know, I'll put a little cream in my coffee now.
And, instead of extra lyrids, right?
We're trying to, I'm buying mediums and smalls.
So we're trying to just get, get back down to a baseline of, of, of minimum.
And it's, it's working okay.
But, you know, it's a daily, I talked to my Averyab guy, at least once a week, still.
You know, I said in pictures of our travels and stuff, you know, we got the dog.
I got the service dog now.
It's just like, you know, they're so busy.
Like, she's such a, she's a German shepherd malnlaw mix.
There's such busy dogs that like, you just, you don't have time to, to be hung over or anything.
So, and, and, like, you quit drinking on your own anyway, right?
Like, you're, like, long time ago?
Well, yeah. So what happened with me is I just retired from the Navy and, and while, while I was in the Navy,
was pretty normal to just drink.
Yeah, we've talked to them.
Yeah.
So, but when I retired, I just looked up a month later and I hadn't had anything to drink.
Then I looked up three months later and I hadn't had anything to drink.
Then I looked up six months later and I was like, well, I have no desire.
And I, and I must say, you know, you talked about not having an addictive personality.
And I think I truly do not have an addictive personality.
I think that other than maybe like something like Jiu Jitsu or something like that,
which I definitely got pretty fanatic about and I still have a hard time with withdrawals.
If I don't get to train for a certain amount of time.
What did Dean say here?
Oh, yeah.
Dean Lister at one time said I was addicted to power.
Which was a domination.
Yeah, you know, I was, I am juggle.
I was given him a hard time about not training and, um,
hassling him and telling me, you know, you're, you're just addicted to that.
No, and he said you're an addict too.
And I said, what am I addicted to?
And he says, you're addicted to power.
But hey, if you can do it on the, on the mats better than becoming like a dictator.
Yeah, but the point is for me is when I, I never even, like, I would say maybe in my mid 20s,
I would get fired up like, hey, like we might put tune.
It would be the end, it would be a Friday.
And we just got done with some hard training.
We were in some random city and it'd be like, oh, yeah, we're going to go on.
Have a good time tonight.
It was more about like, hey, I know we're not going to have a good time about tonight.
That it was like, I really need a beer.
Yeah, me too.
And so as I did that, that was just kind of normal.
And there was definitely the problem with that attitude is,
there are people that have addictive personalities.
And alcohol is ruined all kinds of guys in the civil teams and all kinds of guys in the military,
because it's really, it's just a slippery slope to go from, oh, and it,
this is just normal to, hey, it's Tuesday night.
I'm at home.
I'm alone.
And I'm going to drink a 12 pack.
That's a pretty slippery slope that people, people get.
They're actually just having Jason Gardner on.
And he, he was, he, he quit drinking just like, maybe, I don't know, a couple months ago.
But you know, I said, well, how much were you drinking?
He goes, you know, and I'd come home and I'd crack one open and then I'd crack one open before dinner,
and then I'd have one during dinner, and then I'd have one after dinner,
and then maybe I'd have one before I go to bed with their six beers.
And he's not a big guy.
So six beers is like, you know, he's, and he's even said, like, oh,
I would feel it, you know, not feel it like, you know, he's still doing everything he has to.
But he's not doing it optimally.
And now he said he, he's like, I feel just amazing.
And that's pretty much how Jason talks.
So he says, I feel amazing now.
So, but he's one of those guys that, you know, you could go down that slippery slope.
And he wasn't far down it, but he would look up every night in cold.
You know, because we're new acre, let's face it.
You have six beers.
You don't feel as good as if you had no beers.
And that's something you talked about, Echo.
Yeah, I remember that you were talking to a drink into a quadcar.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And that's the thing.
Like, you wake up and you feel foggy, and like, you know, like, 3 days are wasted if you'd do too much.
And I've anything, you know, like you could, who knows but to put, you know,
I knew guys I woke up and drank whiskey with breakfast.
But it was so accepted in our world as well.
Yeah, that it was, you know, if you showed up for PT and you were hungover.
It was a joke.
Right now.
Yeah, oh, what's up, Jony?
If you didn't like that, it was a bad javonor.
Yeah, it was bad javonor.
Oh, yeah, this guy's drunk.
Wow, look at how well this guy can run, even though he's
hammered.
Look at mid-a-grunning, even though he's throwing up on the move.
That's soldier right there.
Yeah, there's an old seal master chief at Seal Team 1
before I got there, an old Vietnam guy.
And when you went in and talked to him, he had poor shots
of Dikeela.
That's how it was going to be.
Like, oh, it's nine o'clock in the morning cool.
You want to talk to me?
Roger that's what you're doing shots.
Yeah, it's cool.
And that's, again, there's people that can handle that.
And there's people that can't and broadly speaking,
let's face it.
And this is what I eventually thought to myself,
broadly speaking, it makes no sense whatsoever to me now.
As I look back, I'm like, this makes no sense to me.
This does absolutely nothing positive for me.
Doesn't make me stronger, doesn't make me smarter.
In fact, it does the opposite.
Makes you weaker and makes you dumber.
But it took me a long time to figure that out.
And the weird thing for me is when I was a kid growing up,
I was into hardcore music and like the straight edge scene
of people on the other side.
I didn't actually have that, but I definitely listened
to that music.
And it had an influence on me without a doubt,
had an influence on me because it was a rebellion
and a counter to the kids that I knew that were getting drunk
and acting stupid, smoking pot.
And I'm over here going literally thinking,
you're weak and I'm strong.
That's an air-initiative way.
But that's as a 14, 15, 16-year-old kid.
When you're looking at someone else that's smoking pot
and getting drunk and you're thinking,
they're weak and I'm strong.
That's kind of a positive thing as far as I'm concerned.
And I remember getting called weak when I didn't drink
in the pool.
Oh, 100% out.
But I grew up both sides of the family
have their fair share of alcoholics.
Even as a kid, I was someone who,
even though I'm Canadian, Nancy Reagan,
say no to drugs, worked.
Like I said, I smoked hash a handful of times
because my buddy's mom was hot and she sold it.
And I didn't touch anything except booze.
And even then it was like, I was like, you guys,
I could go three months and not drink.
And just be like, I have enough drink for like three months.
I quit cigarettes when we were on deployment
because I couldn't run up the hill next to our camp.
I was like, fuck, if I can't run up the hill,
obviously these things are no.
It was just something I picked up as a kid
because I watched lethal weapon too much.
Mel Gibson, oh, and then Bruce Willis, Bruce Willis,
Mel Gibson, all they did was smoke and everything.
Do people still smoke in movies right now, Echo Charles?
A cowway lesson, we're less late.
I was watching that movie Constantine with Cano Reeves last night.
I just wanted my favorite movies.
I don't know why.
The demons and the other.
Yeah, I don't know why.
I just liked that one.
But he smokes a lot.
But that's the character.
He dies a lung cancer in that.
Right.
Like that's part of the actual lung cancer.
Yeah, he actually has it.
Yeah, he actually has lung cancer in the movie.
But anyway, yeah, I just,
but I, and the guy I've told me about this
anti-addictive personality, like in my 20s.
So I kind of skated on that.
Yeah, yeah, you felt like that was more reinforcement
for your personality.
I just, but also like I quit smoking and drinking
honestly dude, like I said it was a problem
because at the time it was, but it was because I was doing
all the coke because then it levels you.
And I quit drinking New Year's Eve at Kel.
Like she was like, I don't want to drink anymore of it.
It helps you not do coke.
And I was like, all right, awesome.
So we quit drinking, but that the cocaine just would
let go.
And again, I'd go through like a week where I wouldn't do it
and then I'd a week where I did it.
And you know, but eventually, like you said,
your buddy didn't hit like his bottom wasn't like your bottom?
You know what, I was thinking about your bottom
is whatever you wanted to be.
And so I saw the bottom coming for the whole time,
pretty much.
2017, I didn't for a lot of it, but near the end,
it was clear that there was a problem.
Like I still didn't really see the problem
until I was doing those interviews
and then rape-free saw you.
But then 2018 it was trying to level out and figure out
which way it was up which way it was down again, you know.
And you know, don't be afraid to call in reinforcements
like we talked about last time.
Like no, no one is a rock, no one's an island, right?
Like you don't, like Rambo did isn't real, right?
As cool as a movie character he is, he has air support.
He has, you know, he has a fire team,
he has a machine gun team on the flank.
He's got, you know, all he's got are indirect,
stand by like no one is a one man army and, you know,
and I talked about this last time
and I talked about it the first time
I was on the show and I keep re-learning these things
but in different contexts.
And you know, I'm, I hope I'm done learning.
These, these lessons, you know.
And I want to get back to just live in positive, clean.
You know, I, I'm repeating myself now but dude, like,
it was rough and I honestly I questioned whether or not,
like, you know, like people like you
or people in Canada, there's some of my friends,
like, are they gonna accept when I'm this honest?
But I was prepared for the consequences too
because that's, I felt like what I deserved with my actions.
Does that make sense?
Okay.
And, and for the most part, like I said,
everyone's been understanding like,
and it makes it easier for me to talk about,
you know, one of the reasons I, I've, I've talked about
with my psychologist why I didn't get PTSD
from my injuries is because I talked about it so much.
So I'm hoping that talking about this openly
and if, if more listeners to the show and, you know,
if you go to my show, the Jody Medic Podcast episode 39,
I believe is full disclosure where I tried to,
I tried to lay it all out even more than we have here.
And it feels better every time I tell the story, you know.
And it's a lot to get into like an hour or two.
It is really but, you know, with us,
it's almost like an evolution.
All right, the first show, we did good,
but, you know, even back then, like,
if things were, things were getting to be a little dicey
with the politics and with the home life and stuff.
But, and, man, I, I just, and, you know,
I did go through a period where losing my legs
became a real problem there and Kelly's nodding your head
because she saw it, you know, like,
when I couldn't wear my legs, I couldn't drive my car.
I know I drove here last time, but I had with the hand controls.
When I first took the legs off that, I didn't have that.
I was in an apartment by myself, you know, anyway,
I just, you know, here I am.
Do you, do you, you know, the dogs coming up
because you can feel it getting a little worked up right now?
How hard day to day, are you thinking to yourself?
Like, what's the temptation level daily
where you have your friend that delivers?
Right now?
Yeah.
So, how hard is it on, like, a day to day basis?
What's the temptation?
Like, at first it was massive.
Like, I would, you know, let's show narcos.
I can't, I can't, I can't.
I have it, you know, you know, the show narcos.
It's about Pablo Escobar.
Okay.
So, they just came out with season two,
which is now the Mexican courteles.
I haven't watched a single episode.
We were watching pulp fiction and I had to turn it off
when the, what's her name, did a line of coke.
Before in John Chivalde, it was picking her up.
Like, that is like, I could,
I, even now I avoid anything that has drugs in it
for the most part.
And at first it was, and even when I was using,
like, if I was on a roll where I was like two
or three or four days where I hadn't used,
if I put on a show like Scarface, I was like,
oh, you can't watch Scarface sober.
You know, delivering a ball or, you know,
in a case of whiskey.
But, you know, as time has gone by and Kelly and I
are finding more positive things.
Like, HQ is happening.
Like, like, we call it HQ because it's headquarters
for everything that we're gonna do for the future.
And we just started to, you know,
we're trying to start our home business
called Fire Team Alpha.
We're Fire Team Alpha.
I don't know how you guys designate in the seals,
but for us in a section, you have Fire Team Alpha
Bravo Charlie Delta.
So we're Fire Team Alpha within the section.
And we want to help other couples and individuals, right?
And our life coaching is gonna involve some tactical flavor,
you know, so shooting if you want, things like that.
But, so, you know, like, we're doing it.
And the closer we do it, the more steps we take,
the, like, it's, you know, we were last night,
we were driving here from LA and we were like,
we were both just kind of like, remember like,
three months ago, it feels like forever ago, you know?
Like, remember we used to be addicted to cocaine.
And she's like, what do you mean used to be, right?
Like, it's a bit of a reminder, but for me,
I don't even know that guy anymore.
But that was just me back in December.
And I like that.
I was in rehab with people that have, this is their fifth time.
And that scared the shit out of me.
I was like, what do you mean your fifth time?
And then this other guy, you know,
and they're all in their 20s.
And they've been to rehab three, four, five, six times.
I'm like damn, I need to figure out a way
to A and ever B here again.
And B helped you guys never come here again.
You know, so we're even setting up a system
with the rehab place because it's a good place.
And it takes people from American can.
It's called Thousand Island rehab.
It's right on the border where they're with the St. Lawrence.
We are working on a system where as people
has transitional housing from rehab to normal life
is a bit of a problem.
So we are setting up, once we have the headquarters built
and everything by the end of the year.
By next year, we're hoping to have like three or four
bunk set up where we can bring in
like-minded people from rehab.
You already have a building for HQ.
Are you working on it?
We're working on it.
We're close.
We think we have something.
We are, I am moving to Stitzville from Orleans
in Ottawa.
That means going from the far east end to the far west end.
We're very close.
I don't want to let the cat of the bag in case,
like, but the guys that are helping me
are really, guys I met in politics actually.
And they're really great guys.
And they see, you know, they've never held anything against me
for what I've done.
And if anything, they're-
42, it kind of sucks to be starting over again.
It's better than the alternative.
But it's better than the alternative.
And, you know, I could have stayed in politics
and, you know, it's $110,000 a year job,
which is great and stuff.
But I quit a job in the 90s
where I'm making like 65 grand a year in the 90s
as an 18 year old.
Putting things together for Ford,
making way too much money, stupid money for a 19 year old.
Because I wanted to join the army
and I went from 850 bucks a week to 520 every two weeks.
And I loved it.
And that's what Kelly and I are doing now.
We are spiritually rich.
And we are, I know we want more.
We're getting greedy.
We want more fulfillment and enrichment in our lives
and we just want to surround ourselves with good people.
Yeah, you know, and you said earlier,
and I held onto the thought,
you said, hey, you know, you got to take care of yourself first.
But you also, and that's, there is definite truth to that
because if you don't take care of yourself,
you're not going to be able to help anyone else.
But I'm telling you, and you already know,
because this is what you're talking about.
You can take care of yourself.
Once you got yourself under control,
there's no better reward in life than helping other people
and moving people in the right direction
and helping people find the path.
So.
Well, I mean, even through all these troubles,
we talked about right before the show,
the recruiting depot for the Canadian Armed Forces called me.
And I don't even think I was at a rehab yet, was I, babe?
No.
And I guess that I wasn't shy about what was going on.
And the top shot from every platoon now,
going through our recruitment depot
is going to get the Mass Corbable Jody Medic Topshot Award.
There's no greater honor.
And I get to go and give a speech now
to these troopers, these young troops,
as they leave their now soldiers.
They've finished basic training.
And I get to go and tell them, like, hey, look at me.
Look at what I did.
And I'm a complete fuck up.
But, you know, it's who you are on the inside.
It's how you redeem yourself.
And it's how you look after those
around you that makes you who you are.
At least that's what I think.
Look at, and here I am giving you a speech
less than three months after finishing rehab,
or just like three months after.
And you know what?
Hey, as awesome as the congressional mental of honor
or the Victoria Cross for me is,
having something named after me,
that all the new troops see and some will point out
and go, I fucking want that.
I want that award.
That's the best greatest honor the military
probably could have bestowed on you.
To say, you are someone we want our troops,
our youngest newest members,
to aspire to be like, man, I got a job.
I got a job.
My job is to be that guy.
And if it means you screw up, it means you own it
and you dust yourself off and you carry on.
And you find a way and you, and you know what?
And that's all I'm going to keep doing.
That's why like friends like you and things like this,
podcasting in our generation is how we do that.
And like again, I'm talking about it.
I'm trying not to get emotional
because there's a master corporal,
Joe D. Minic, Topshot Award.
And it's not just at like some unit,
mass hall, you know, like the,
what every new recruit going through the depot
is going to see this thing.
And it's, anyway,
I don't know what else to say.
I'm speechless about it, Frank.
Well, that's awesome.
And I mean, that is, that's just an awesome honor
that that these young recruits are going to come in.
And then every single recruit in the Canadian Army is going to know who you are
and what you represent.
And part of what they're going to see
of what you represent once they know your story
is they're going to realize that you're not perfect.
Yeah.
And they're going to realize that no one's perfect.
And they're going to realize that they can get control
over the things that have gotten out of control.
And they can move forward in a positive way
and make the absolute best out of what they're doing with their life.
Like, I don't know about you, but like something like that
puts you in a position to be a mentor to these people.
Oh, for sure.
And like same with like my podcast, your pod,
people come to you, I'm sure, out of the blue with lots of things.
And it's, you know, sometimes I, you know,
I stopped responding for a while because of where I was,
but now I'm getting back, like I wear your t-shirts again,
bro.
Like I have to do you see that?
Do we say that on the, on the, yeah.
Yeah.
I'm going to, I want one of those before I leave.
You know, because discipline does equal freedom.
And it doesn't mean you govern every moment of your day, but it means
that more discipline you are with yourself, the more free you are to be yourself.
Does that make more, that's how I've always seen.
That's what discipline equals random is, man.
That's what it is.
You know, I feel like we're coming to a natural conclusion here, maybe I'm wrong,
thanks, man.
Like it's both of you.
Like I just, I, I need people like you that, like guys, I look up to you, man.
Like I know, I know it's weird.
It's weird.
It should be the way around.
I know.
But I do, man.
I want that top shot award.
I do.
And, you know, you really, you really help me a lot, you know?
And, and I hope I can repay the favor one day.
And, and I, and I know you say, I don't know you, but I, I, I, I couldn't do, I couldn't achieve what I'm
doing now without the support of people like you and my life.
And I go of course.
Well, you're right, you don't know me anything and the only thing that I would like is for you to stay on the path.
And Roger that, moving forward and keep kicking ass and stay clean and keep doing what you know you're capable of doing and what you're destined to do.
Good copy.
Check.
All right, I think that is a natural.
Cool. Can I just go to the quick shout out to Wardall?
Yeah.
This is the Wardall T-shirt.
I think it's called the Dreamcatcher.
He's a veteran in Canada.
Go ahead, look him up in order some of his T-shirts help him out.
A full, is it 20?
I think 20% of his proceeds go to charity for veterans.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
Wardall.
The Wardall.
You got like a blog and he has some cool cool swag.
That's good.
Good dude.
It's good dude.
Yeah, that's pretty cool.
Look in T-shirt.
Yeah, I noticed it on the way in.
Yeah.
I'll have him send you some.
Check.
Um, echo.
Yes.
You know, speaking of the path.
Sure.
And whatnot.
We see it's easy to slip off the path from time to time.
It is.
We want to get back on the path.
If we want to stay on the path, recommendations.
Sure.
From echo trials.
Cool.
I recommend you to.
So, as a strip.
So, you were talking about, um,
what?
I'm starting to judge you by the way.
I like that.
Good.
Yeah.
So, relieving stress.
You will have a good time with you, Jitter.
Yeah.
I'm finally comfortable enough with my leg stumps.
That I feel like I can roll with people without feeling inadequate.
I've rolled with, uh, quite a few people with various stumps.
Yeah.
Yes.
Stunk legs.
Stumps.
In the building.
Arms stumps.
Yeah.
Um, Matt.
I know we got Jeff Rial here.
He's, he's got no hand.
And he chokes you with that stumps.
He's got a stomp and he chokes you with it.
Oh, yeah.
Sticks it right into your Adam's apple.
Oh.
And that, certain position.
Part of the game.
Yeah.
That's going to use it.
People know hands and legs both.
Yeah.
I'm, I'm finally able to deal with it.
And you're below the knee too.
So you, you can do stuff.
Oh, yeah.
This all comes.
Stuff.
Yeah.
I can do things.
Can go down.
Oh, yeah.
So yeah.
That's a good way.
Stress relief.
That's one of those ones that it's probably one of the biggest stress relievers.
There is.
Yeah.
That I've had in the way I have my life is very, you know, simple.
Even right when you begin.
He gets super stressed out.
Yeah.
As we know, sometimes you get a dishwasher.
You know, if you're going to go so as soft bowls to their spot or silverware over there,
that's a tough decision.
We get stressed out.
Luckily, you can do the digits.
You two really bad.
Anyway, I'd be stressed about the state of the day.
I trained to, I did two a day yesterday.
I did two.
I did morning digits two after noon.
Just morning, ghee, evening, no ghee.
Dang what?
My stress level was super low.
Yeah.
That was so low.
I was so stoked.
But that's, yeah, I did one yesterday and I went.
I thought, uh, new day.
Okay.
Check it out.
Avoidance.
Well, you know, my feelings are less, um, how should I say available?
Yeah, yeah.
As far as I can.
You're working.
Doing various things.
The less stress relief due to, right?
Where that's like a double, maybe even a triple, actually, maybe even like an endless
benefit situation due to it.
But as far as the stress is.
There's a mental stress relief, yes.
Yeah.
And it's so, like, you're going to like, you're going to, you're going to hate it.
That first, you need it choked.
Yeah.
You're going to be a lot more prepared for that.
People little, little, 120 pound people are going to choke you.
They're going to, they're going to arm lock you and you're going to think this is not fair.
Yeah.
But it's not fair.
They know.
I've been like a spectator of the community for so long.
Yeah.
Before I got wounded, I want, my plan was to come home and actually like train and
try and get a one MMA flight.
Yeah.
Because in Canada, like it wasn't that big a thing for 2006.
And then, you know, they'll get blown up.
But I'm fully prepared for the humility that that's very good.
Just to bring is because I need it.
Yeah.
We all do.
If you look at it and since you're who you are and how you are, you're going to,
you're going to have trouble avoiding the part that it's like, yes, this person is like
beating me up.
And can beat me up even though this is small.
So you're going to, you're probably not going to avoid that element of, well, I'm reading
it.
It's a common reaction to what's happening.
Yes.
So as long as I train to prepare for that, like if I train my mind, right?
But it doesn't change that if Kelly jokes me out, I will feel inadequate for a while.
Yes.
And that's, so that part, but it's a lie.
I feel a little bit more, yeah.
But there's another part.
Is it's not a machine?
No, I don't turn red for a little plus.
There's the other part of it is if you look at it as a problem solving situation, you
know, like it's like, okay, he's not beating me up.
He is, by the way.
But you don't think of it like that.
You think, okay, this is the issue.
This is a problem.
And I'm going to solve.
Yes, I got to learn how to do it.
I don't take a while, but in any puzzle situation, you know, okay, I'm not going to learn
this thing overnight.
It's a huge 5,000 piece puzzle.
Right.
It's infinite.
But, you know, you still look at it in that sort of way.
And then you can start to accept.
Okay.
The thing I really appeals to it, what appeals about it to me is that even practitioners
like a viewer guy's his level, like, jock was level, even.
What's his name, the guy who's always separated us?
Well, jock was in that issue.
You've been at a percentage of what?
12?
Something like that.
What's the guy, Gracie?
Even he says he learns every day.
Yeah, that's true.
And that's what it feels like, you know, it appeals to me because there's no true
experts.
I mean, there are people that will kick your ass every day, but they even they have someone
that could kick their ass.
Yeah, always learning.
Yes.
So, when you do digital, you're going to need a key.
Because you've got to do key and no key, you've got to do both.
I think.
We have a fully stand the path.
100% both.
So you need a key.
Get an origin key.
You know what I have?
What kind of key do I get?
Now you know, origin key.
You saw the one I just got.
You got one for me?
Yeah.
We will.
We'll get one for you.
Okay.
Roger that.
No doubt.
Yeah.
What's your origin?
Well, rock origin.
All the keys in the world straight up.
Yeah.
Naturally.
Made in America.
I know you're from Canada, but made in America actually means a lot.
Yeah.
Hey, bro.
North America.
We're taking North America.
So you can say, made in North America, which is also true.
America means quality.
It does.
Except for 80s cars.
That's it.
80s cars.
But even then you put them back together yourself.
And it's just a piece of pride that you can have in the driveway.
You're good.
Indeed.
And these keys are no exception.
By the way.
So yeah, you got to origin main.com.
That's where you can get them.
They got a lot of other stuff.
Do you do too?
And just regular stuff.
Regular life stuff.
Life stuff.
Like jeans.
Yes.
That's what I got to get you.
I got to get some orange and jeans.
A big fan of jeans I fit right.
Yeah.
They're legit.
And you get your supplements there.
Which will keep you in the game on the path 100%.
Mm.
Oh yeah.
100%.
Yeah.
And I really use 100%.
I do.
But do you want to say 99 just in case?
No, no.
No.
That's committed.
That's normally normally I would say 90.
Saying, you know, the one person will rule my get it.
Not in this case.
Actually, they've proven to be the most important supplements I've ever taken better than
Jocos.
They are Jocos actually.
Oh, wait.
So Jocco krill super krill.
Jocco joint warfare.
Me in origin labs.
Yeah.
Roger that.
So you know, that's where that's huge.
Yeah.
But now I see, but nonetheless, they are straight up.
They'll keep you in the game.
Same thing.
Okay.
So discipline go, which is a little bit of a new trophy.
Yeah.
But Jason Gardner did his first echelon front gig.
Nice.
Dang right in the game.
Right in the game.
And he was sent me a text and he was like,
I took this by Sarah took three discipline go 42 minutes out from the
commencement.
He was a ty was from the fire.
And he was like, I'm sorry.
And he even tacked it sounded like that to the text.
Yeah, that's how Jason is.
You were so fired up.
But the funny thing is he texted me earlier and he says, hey,
it's seven o'clock in the morning and I was at another gig.
And he says, hey, can you hook me up with some discipline?
Go.
And I said, I'm not at my house.
My wife can get you the supply.
I don't stand.
See, this is sort of like the supply thing.
Yeah.
Like, you deliver, deliver.
Oh, okay.
He went to my house picked up a couple picked up enough discipline for
his gig discipline go and then he hit it.
So, yeah, if you feel like you might need a little something to clarify your thoughts
through to ignite a little bit of extra brain power.
Yes.
Get yourself some discipline go.
You can just get the regular discipline powder drink.
The thing is if you're going to be doing something where let's just let me just call it what it is.
If you're going to have to go to the bathroom, then you don't want to.
Like if you're going to go on stage and talk to people for two hours and then a little bit.
You're going to go, I even won't want to second.
With Bruce by the way, I've never done and hopefully I never will do.
So, that's that.
You don't know, anyway, it's done that.
I don't know.
I mean, you might feel like you just had to like go to the bathroom so bad with the middle of a presentation.
Yeah, but you don't know.
No, you don't know.
You don't like what you let me put it to.
Okay, I used to before going in the field.
Hydrate like crazy.
Yeah.
And then you see you hydrate like crazy and then you get on the helicopter and you got a piss.
And then you got like a 48 minute and it's suit.
You're getting on the helicopter.
Like, okay, I just should go right now and you don't because someone's like,
Hey, come on.
We'll get in here.
So you get in and then you're flying and you have to go to the bathroom so bad the whole time.
The whole time.
And like hurt. I've run off the hook and just passed. Yeah.
Like because the whole flight, you just write you just read it.
So there are some times where that is really a problem.
So discipline, go.
Can help you out with that.
You see, I'm learning also.
Mulk.
Some additional protein.
Going back in the gym or if you already in the gym, whatever.
Mulk.
Boom.
To another two pronged effect with the mulk as well.
Additional protein and dessert.
The up.
Because there are tasty delicious.
Don't forget about the warrior kid mulk, which kids everywhere are basically.
If you want your kid to be just a complete destroyer on the mats in school and everything that they do, get them where you're getting mulk.
Yep.
And they'll be happy about it.
I went off and I had to tell, who was it?
Tyler.
You know, Tyler, the kid from origin.
He was doing like the, the Jaco in New York City, little video.
And I said, I was going crazy.
You kind of like I just did.
And I was saying that if you don't give your kids warrior kid mulk, that's child abuse.
You said, what?
That's nice.
Now I'm being real.
If you have a kid and you give your kid strawberry quick, which is literally filled with sugar.
And crap.
Or you could give them strawberry mulk, which tastes just as good.
If not better, and it's 100% good for the kid, how is that not child abuse?
It is not child abuse.
Okay.
So there you go.
You're thinking about your choices.
We're going to call the child protective services when we're watching.
We're seeing quick getting bought.
You're going down.
You're going to get in trouble.
So, click might have something to say about that.
Chocolate and strawberry.
Yeah, of course they do.
They're going to pay someone and put more money into some politicians pocket to come after me,
because we're trying to make kids stronger.
Bring it on.
We're all bringing it on.
So that's that.
Check it.
It is also.
Chocolate is stored.
It's called Jocco Store.
And this is where we get our apparel.
You want to represent while you're on the path.
It's good.
We've got some new stuff on there.
Lightweight hoodies.
What do you say?
What did you say?
You say Brady's vote.
I bet that's fine.
And Brady just said Brady didn't even say heavyweight hoodies.
He said standard hoodies, which I don't even want to stand.
I want to have you wait.
I want to Canadian level.
You don't even like to know what I'm saying.
No, no, it's standard.
Kind of.
It's too easy to be average.
Yeah.
Standard.
Well, okay.
Brady, I respect it.
I respect his opinion.
That wasn't just his opinion.
That was the opinion of a vote.
With a winner vote.
Oh, like our one of those polls.
Yeah.
And it was 60 40 in favor of standard.
If he would have had heavyweight on there,
it could have been a whole scenario.
Good.
Well, good news is we already have standard hoodies.
Okay.
And that's a good thing.
We have lightweight hoodies.
Dirty minute.
What about you?
Lightweight hoodies.
Yeah, your name.
Just in general.
Don't just think that it says light weight though.
He isn't going to like that.
I just want to.
I want to.
You're just a hoodie.
Why are you getting a hoodie?
What if you're not because people in the world exist with different.
Different.
He's different thresholds different takes on the hoodie situation rather than you and apparently
do not know.
I rock a thin like a thin material hoodie.
Okay.
That's what I did underneath my vest.
Yeah.
Okay.
You're over with echo that.
Yeah.
No, but I have another.
I have thicker.
That's cool.
He just said you're with me and you just said no no.
So you know, but I'm saying I'm with myself.
I got evidence.
I have several layers of hoodie.
Okay.
As I'm saying, I have very thick for cold extreme weather and I have very thin for
you know, like California.
Yeah.
See?
It's what he is with me.
But I did never call it like weight.
Yeah.
You know what I think.
I just call it a shirt material.
Maybe it's like a light weight is a classification for warmth.
Okay.
So maybe call it a temperate temperate temperate temperate temperate temperate temperate.
It's working title.
Right.
You know, you're a very weird, weird, weird weather.
Yeah.
Pretty.
For sure.
You used to say this thing when like in the paper.
Incoming.
That's in coming.
Yeah.
Incoming.
So lightweight temperate.
Hoodies, whichever incoming to little anyway.
Some other new stuff on there.
Anyway, it's on jockelstore.com.
Also you can get more rash guards.
You really want to represent.
So just to help out like a layman, a grass guard is to avoid getting like drag
across the mats and other people skin, right?
Getting your skin.
That's part of it.
Part of it is also you're just wearing it because if you and I are grappling, my fingers and toes and hands.
Right.
You can get caught in your clothes and it's a little bit of a pain.
Roger that.
Okay.
It's better with the sweat.
Sit you it like if you're wearing this shirt, which is cool.
By the way, if you're wearing that shirt and you sweat all in it, you did 10
Round.
You know, and you're sweating all.
It's that's like splashing everywhere.
You know, it's everything.
The rash.
It's like it's like a cotton can become a very abrasive.
When it's wet as we knew.
Yeah.
You know, or some people wear it underneath the guise.
Some people.
Roger.
So you know, if you're training guise today, for weeks.
So rash guards are a must for training jiu-jitsu.
I maybe want to say that.
I know what I'm doing.
Yeah, they're not a must, but they're a nice day.
It's nice.
They're cool.
Yeah.
Very good.
I prefer big time.
Oh, unless we have them, we have some represent the path.
Big time in your jiu-jitsu.
Or whatever else you're doing cycling running whatever.
Some women's stuff on that.
Some hats on their both.
Flex hit n.
Trucker hats.
Jiu-jitsu flex under trucker hat.
Ooh, a big fan of the trucker hat.
There you go.
Because it gives me the ventilation.
Yeah.
You like that echo?
Yeah, I like that.
And we offer that by the way.
But if you flex fit a winter.
I see.
We have winter in Canada.
So flex fit keeps the heat in.
Oh, yeah.
Because it's very humid in Ontario.
What we are being these two, this speaking of winter.
Oh, okay.
There you go.
So that the beauty of the book.
We call it a Tuk.
Tuk.
We call it a Tuk in Canada.
Because it won't.
Well, yeah.
Yeah.
Or just anything that goes on your head that looks a knitted cap.
And it's called in the Army Field Manual.
A Tuk.
Yeah, we have that.
And you got your Duk.
I'm impartial.
I don't wear nothing.
I don't wear hats anymore.
Yeah, no.
As much.
You don't have to.
You have a beautiful perfectly round head.
I guess.
I'm always hiding my hair.
Like when I have hair.
When I have hair.
He's a money.
But I get it gets curly.
And then it gets like really hard to manage.
Yeah.
Very pretty.
I'm managing.
Actually, I've just a picture of my Instagram if you know, if you followed Jody on his Instagram.
Sure.
I've made it 16.
Look at all kinds of rough neck with my hair.
I'm going to go this thick.
And my hair is just a goddamn disaster.
It's beautiful.
Beautiful to see.
A wild man of Jody Medicare.
My favorite actor was Mel Gibson at the time.
I'm just going to say that.
I respect that.
Big time.
Nonetheless, good stuff on there.
If you jockelstore.com, this where you get it, if you like something, get something.
Also, jockelweight.
Jockelweight.
I've yet to try jockelweight.
He's really too sad.
Because I got some right here.
And I've been trying it all day.
Yeah.
Oh, jockelweight.
You can hurt your mouth.
The last one after the show.
And one of the many benefits if you don't know already, which I know you already do.
You can, did, live 8,000 pounds.
There was a guy he just deadlifted a bunch of weight recently.
Yeah.
And the road situation.
A lot of people are worried if they're competing in powerlifting.
Right.
And right.
And yeah, will you get tested for jockelweight T?
And then there already automatically going to know you're taking jockelweight T if you did it.
Yeah.
That's kind of a test.
So you got to be careful.
Keep it at 7,500 in the tournament.
Got to send back little in the competition.
But other benefits are certified, USDA organic.
Think about that.
You could drink a normal energy drink and become less healthy.
Yeah.
Or you could drink jockelweight T and you could become more healthy.
That's, is that a hard choice to make?
I don't think so.
It's not even hard choice to make.
Drink what's going to make you more healthy.
Also, subscribe to the podcast.
If you haven't subscribed to the podcast yet, first of all, you have issues.
Because there's been, this is 169.
And I used to think that everyone had subscribed at this point.
But it was actually echo Charles that proved me wrong.
Because somebody tweeted like, no, I just subscribed for the first time.
So if you haven't subscribed, subscribe through iTunes Google Play Stitch or whatever.
Leave some reviews.
I was reading reviews.
I always review the reviews is what I do.
Yeah.
That people are like healthy.
It's healthy to review your reviews.
Yeah.
All right.
And don't forget about the warrior kid podcast as well.
Yeah.
Let's not.
The best kids podcast that has ever been.
Mm-hmm.
Does anyone disagree with that?
I don't even know there was a kids qualification or category.
Yeah.
Warrior kid podcast.
Family and children and family are something that's like, is the category that it's under.
Mm-hmm.
And I'm sorry.
I did not know you had that.
Yeah.
The warrior kid podcast.
The time on the plug day became from the world.
The warrior kid podcast, which I haven't put out as many as I should.
But there's a reason for that.
It's like, there's a lot that goes into it.
I know it might not seem like it.
Mm-hmm.
But there's a lot that I put into those.
I thought.
Yeah.
It's kind of my fault.
I feel like I haven't done what all that I could have been doing to you know how to make it happen.
Mm-hmm.
I got a work harder.
That's what needs to happen.
So there's that.
I know for you about the warrior kid soap, which we have some good new samples.
You can get the jocals.
So if you can get the trooper soap.
The trooper soap.
It's nice.
Has the rope you can hang it on?
Soap on a rope.
I risked Irish oak for ants.
Soap on a rope is super useful.
Yeah.
It has a real purpose.
You know that right?
Well here's the thing.
We used to make it in school.
Well I never knew about that.
I'm quiet here.
You know, soap on a rope and like I was like,
Oh that sounds cute.
You know, and then when I say,
Oh soap is actually on a rope.
Yeah.
Oh it's super useful.
So it's just kind of.
You never draw a bar soap again.
You're good to go.
So that's Aiden.
It's a big problem.
I'm always like kid.
Bar soap.
So it's fine.
And that way you can stay clean.
Don't forget about YouTube if you want to see.
If you want to see Ecos.
What he considers to be his legit video.
I never considered using that word.
Then you can see him there.
Because he thinks his videos are worth using.
I actually kind of agree with that kind of.
Ecos got some.
He's good at the editing.
Yeah.
He's not like that.
Either that or he just really does a lot of.
Of editing and makes it so you know this it.
Because wouldn't it be a better editor that would make it so like.
Yeah.
Seenless that you would just not even realize.
You just feel it.
You would notice it.
Yes.
You're actually.
Okay.
No.
Yeah.
You're right.
When I do make those videos.
If they're good, not good.
Whatever.
When I do make them.
I make them for myself.
For sure.
Yeah.
I put like sound effects.
I shouldn't put sound effects while you're talking.
But you think about it.
I can see music.
Because music kind of enhances.
Is there how to expose it?
But what?
I can see that.
It's like, my effects that I put on.
I can see it.
So I made people see that you're still.
What you're doing.
It's what you're doing.
Yeah.
In the video.
So yes.
You're correct.
Psychological warfare.
That's now.
You can listen to it.
If you need help.
I got a moment of weakness.
It actually I've been listening to it a lot in the last three months.
I like to hear that.
Hey.
Back to it.
You're a thing where you're saying earlier where you couldn't look at the shirt.
I couldn't wear it.
I couldn't.
I could look.
I could wear it.
I'm interested in the opposite though.
It's like when you put it on, you can't skip a workout now.
You can't slack.
It's the same concept.
You walk straighter.
Yeah.
You have a little bit more purpose in the looking your eye.
But like I didn't wear jocos.
I didn't wear any of the veteran t-shirt companies.
Like I just.
Yeah.
When you put it on, you got to like you got a.
I walked out of rehab wearing your shirt.
I like that.
Yeah.
And it's just.
And it's going to sound a little corny.
But it's kind of just weird having one of your friends.
Peptalk you at a bed.
I'm going to go ahead and say that.
You know, putting on a.
I'm putting on a psychological warfare.
Psychological warfare.
I'm like a logical warfare.
I'll put it on repeat.
And it's like somebody you hang with.
It's just kind of like, I get a jocco.
I'm a.
I need to work harder.
Okay.
Can I take a stick to you yesterday?
Like I get up at six.
It's not jocco.
But it's the best I could do right now.
You know, it's really weird.
It's when I have to listen to psychological warfare.
Yeah.
That would be the most weird thing.
That is the weirdest thing.
Or the most normal.
Or kind of like, or it's the most amazing.
I've never.
Yeah.
Maybe it be the spouse situation.
Actually, that's a good idea.
If you are a person that's trying to do something, be good to cut yourself a couple of tracks to
explain to yourself why you're trying to do this thing.
So in the moment of weakness comes, you could listen to me.
Sure.
But you could actually listen to yourself.
Actually, that's a.
That's a great idea.
I'm going to do that.
Right now.
Like, it's this is my presence.
Or this is my future self.
It's like I've heard of people doing that.
I'm going to be slacking on whatever.
And I feel exactly what it's for.
But they'll be like, they'll put an audio note.
And they'll say, this is your past self or whatever.
Saying to you.
Future echo.
Listen closely.
Yes.
Exactly.
Right.
Saying, hey, this is what you're thinking right now.
This is what you're feeling right now.
Don't do it.
You know, it's like you're talking to somebody.
I've heard of that.
Yeah.
I can't.
I don't know.
That sounds like a problem for future.
Jody and Kelly.
Yeah.
Exactly.
You can cook it.
Yeah.
You like you dealt with that future.
Jody Kelly didn't you.
I like that.
We're going to try that.
We'll let you know how it works.
I like it.
I'll tell you right now.
It sounds good in theory.
But I'm all like this obey myself.
Way quicker than all this obey you.
Well, that's a good point.
And I think a lot of people like that.
That's probably a people on both sides of the coin.
Yeah.
Because eventually you'd be like, I'm not listening to Joko.
He's a good guy.
He's he's he's he's he's crazy.
Right.
But they like it yourself.
That's not that.
No escape.
If it's a goal that you set for yourself.
Not my goal.
It's goal you set for yourself.
True.
I'm my own worst critic.
So I don't know.
I think you're right.
Right.
You promised yourself as way easier.
Yeah.
Because you might be used to that or it's weird.
I think you'd use both.
You also check out a flipside canvas dot com.
This is Dakota Meyer from podcast 115.
And he's selling basically badass prints.
Is that what you call prints?
Prens.
You can get prints of what really cool stuff.
Very smart work.
Like movie scenes.
Things like that.
Like there's a couple of them sitting over there.
Good.
You get one.
He made.
You can get one of the stuff.
He's making that stuff.
Yeah.
Just plenty of course freedom.
So yeah.
If you want to support.
What's the call?
Flipside canvas dot com.
And actually the reason it's called flipside is because one of the last things
that one of his rows said don't before they went into that battle was I'll see on the flipside.
That's what the story is behind that.
So support Dakota.
He's the man and check it out.
You can also get these.
Well, they're kind of reminders to you.
But you can hang up and get reminded.
Oh yeah.
Because we need to get reminded whether it's psychological warfare,
whether it's a print.
Keep yourself on the path.
Whether it's a t-shirt.
Yeah.
These things have an impact.
And those reminders are actually way more like powerful.
These are powerful.
But they're more powerful than you might think because think about like even like with drinking or something like this where.
If you have like a planned day tomorrow where it has no room for drinking that day.
No room.
No room for drinking the night before or that day if you have it all planned out.
You're probably you'll drink you're likely to drink way less.
But if you don't, it's almost like you sort of forget to stay focused on what you have to do.
Almost like a way of forgetting.
Yeah.
That's why if you have a plan day like you get more done rather than because you you've
Fossuseptable till like what do I feel like to you know you're led more with what you feel like.
The weird thing is when you're dealing with addiction,
that's when you screw up the most.
The day that you have the big presentation, the big meeting that night before is when you will.
Because it's like self sabotage or something.
100% self sabotage.
Because you want to get caught because you know you're doing the wrong things.
You know what? A lot of what might be heavier over the last two for the last two years was like I hope someone I think
Psycholot or subconscious was like yeah somebody like because it became my actions became almost arrogant like it might boldness.
Anyway, we're done with all that. Let's finish the commercials.
These are more like announcements. Tids to stay on the past. It's all the joggoyling podcast.
You can do it every once.
True.
So homedimp right. We're doing homedimp.
You go on it.
Dot com. This is where you get your kettlebells.
I have all the monkey bells that they put out.
Let's take five years ago.
Remember that?
Oh yeah.
I got them too.
And I got the mace.
The quad mace.
That's the head on it.
Yeah.
Do you have like a regular routine with the mace?
I had one.
Yes.
So I meant I actually didn't want to.
I actually jacked my elbows because of all the shooting I did as a sniper.
So I had to build up my inner like because of what's in the inside.
It's the golfer's elbow.
This is like tennis.
This is good.
Anyway, I had to build up the tenons and then I could swing them.
Yeah.
See, I'm not so interested.
You try to do it a little routine.
If you're not used to that,
you'll feel all those little weird omassels that you know.
You know, one of my buddies served a house here in San Diego.
And he sends me a text.
He's out of town.
He's in the deaves.
He goes, hey man, sold the house, escrow closes tomorrow.
It's done.
I got a tire there and some other like bumper plates.
Whatever if you want to go grab it.
I'm not I'm not taking it.
So if you want to get it otherwise,
I got to get it moved by someone.
So it was a little bit of a, you know,
good deal for him.
Good deal for me.
And it's been raining here and something kind of funny.
Anyways, I showed up at the house and you know,
I was pretty psyched to get a tire.
You know, we're talking about a big tractor tire.
Yeah, big tractor tire.
Yeah.
But I was thinking like a big tractor tire.
You know, you could, you know, easily thrown a vehicle or something like that.
It was like freaking massive.
So like some like the big foot would be in the huge.
Huge.
It's absolutely huge.
I barely got it.
And you know, my giant van.
I barely, bit literally barely got into the most the biggest van you could buy.
I barely got it this year.
After I, and it's where it was all filled with water.
I had to get a scoop all the water.
Now, where my flip flops, it was a nightmare.
So to my buddy that, then you know who you are.
I got your tire to my backyard.
I'm psyched now.
Well, it's because now I got a cool tire.
I also was like one of those things like, oh, you know, I've got a call in like 30 minutes.
I'll just drive over their grab it real quick.
No, I was out there get barely making it back.
But you made it.
Yeah.
So don't underestimate the tire.
Do you clarify the tire?
Oh, you got a tire?
Yes.
You need a moving truck to move it.
Oh, okay.
Give me a heads up now.
You figured tractor tire?
Tractor tire.
Yeah.
So that there's a little, it's just, it's not, it's just, it's not as tall as me, but it's be.
Yeah, like the one here.
No, no, that's what I was expecting.
That's our gym here, you know, Victor, Jim.
We got to, we got to know, we got some tires.
We got three or four of them.
This thing is bigger and all of them.
A lot better.
Yeah, you got jam.
Yeah.
But you know, hey, he hooked me up.
That's probably vague on purpose.
Yeah.
No, he knows I'm fired up, right?
But most people think,
I guess tire.
He was an estimation.
Junk, I want to ask you.
You know he won't ask.
I can't wait for him to go get that tire.
Yeah.
Little less.
So tires or otherwise,
home gym, boom.
Like I say, kettlebells rings, jump rope.
That's a big one too.
Don't forget the jump rope.
A lot of cool stuff on there could work on the feet.
If you have feet.
I mean, if you can jump rope, can you jump rope?
No, I've tried.
Yeah.
I just a guy though on.
That's what I'm going to get.
I think he goes and cat.
Yeah.
I think he's named Mad Matt on Instagram.
He's a double blow knee.
I believe he's American Army.
Anyway, he jumps rope.
But he has like some prosthetic I haven't seen before.
So I'm going to try and get my hands on some of those.
I like it.
Jump rope is awesome.
Yeah.
Unless you get them at on it.
Dot comp slash.
We got some books.
Jodys got two books.
The first book, which I covered on podcast 24.
It's called Unflinching.
You can read.
You should definitely read it.
It's an awesome book.
Thanks, man.
Yeah.
It shows the pat, the journey that Jodys been on and now you know the rest of the journey.
You can hear the rest of the journey.
And he also wrote another book called Everyday Heroes.
Yeah.
Which is.
So that's about.
I've because in Canada, the military book genre is not as well received, let's say.
So my publisher realized there was an audience with my book at the best seller list.
In Canada, though.
I mean, there's less people in Canada, all of Canada than there in California.
So it's like, my kids aren't going to Ivy League schools or anything.
But so they want, so I wanted to do a book that would let other soldiers tell their story.
And I'm hoping to make a series out of it.
Like it's a book that I think I could do every year and never run out of material.
So pick it up.
Every day heroes, it's available every Amazon and anywhere.
But some good old boys from World War II in Korea right up to Afghanistan.
One of my favorite stories is this guy Bruno.
He disarms a suicide bomber while the guy has his fingers on the trigger.
Yeah.
The bot like balls, the size of like kettlebells.
Like so anyway, and he's a pretty good cool duties.
He's out there somewhere doing the good fight.
But that's awesome.
Yeah.
So pick those books up.
You can also get Mikey in the dragons.
Best children's book.
In the world.
Yeah.
Mikey in the dragons.
Well, you know.
You can pick that one up.
You can pick up way of the warrior kid.
Way of the warrior kid too, which is called Mark's mission.
Jody.
How does your daughter like weigh the warrior kid?
Uh, in her words, it's the greatest book she's ever read.
And she's 10.
Yeah.
And she's a girl and she's Canadian and she's my daughter.
And I can't get her to do.
Like even jits who's an argument.
I'm like you're doing jits who and I start.
She's like no, I don't want to.
But for some reason, that book and it's out on her shell for a couple months.
Yep.
But man, when she read it, she said, this is, I didn't, she didn't tell me she's reading it.
But she said, your friend wrote the greatest book I've ever read.
Did you book her pour it on it for school and every time?
That is awesome.
Yeah.
I think it's one of those things.
You don't want to force your kid to read it.
You just put it there.
You just kind of put it out there and let them read it.
Just like any leadership position.
You don't want to force things down someone's throat.
You just make available to them.
The path.
They'll see it.
They get on it.
And there's going to be a new or your kid book coming out in the spring.
I'll let you know when it's available for pre-order.
The big pre-order.
The name of that.
The subtitle of that book is where there's a will.
So you got that one coming.
You got the discipline because freedom field manual.
If you need to, it's another little reminder for life.
It's another thing that'll keep you on the path.
It keeps me on the path.
Just have that book sitting on one of my friends that is at a hedge fund.
And there, you know what's like a really cool looking hedge funds.
They're New York City.
All cool.
All well for walls.
What does that stuff?
What's the, yeah, sleek.
That's a modern thing.
They're very sleek.
And he shows me a picture of like they're,
they're, when you walk in and when you walk into a hedge fund,
you want to, they want to leave an impression that they know what's up.
There's a, there's this big white table.
What's on the white table?
The field.
The field bed.
One book.
Just sitting there.
And he says, everyone that comes in picks it up and goes,
What is this thing?
This is awesome.
So, it's perfect to be the only book to aesthetically.
It seems to be in a specific way,
it's a white table or black goes with everything.
Or a great table.
Yeah.
It goes with everything.
It's very nice.
So, get that book for yourself for anyone that wants to get after it more.
Or continually.
Extreme ownership.
We talked about that a bit today.
The lessons we learned in combat and how you can apply them.
To your business, to your team, to your family, to your life.
Also the dichotomy leadership, which is now starting to creep out from its older brothers, shadow.
Because extreme ownership, everyone knows that everyone loves it.
But they're like, Oh, dichotomy, oh, we don't know about your little brother.
It's kind of like you, Echo.
You're a James Little brother.
Yep, sure.
And you know, it was kind of like, oh, Jade was kind of like,
I'm like, I'm like, I don't know, came first.
Came first.
You're just the echo.
Right?
Oh, and Jade was bigger than you, right?
Yeah, he was.
You hear the echo?
You see, I'm saying.
So dichotomy leadership is like the echo Charles of the Jade Charles.
Oh, family.
Oh, you're just funny about that on that thread.
Like, before my jodimetic podcast episode one, when we were coming to meet you,
we had to come and we debated, Luke and I debated if echo,
like I say, I can't wait to find out what echo Charles is real name is.
And Luke says, I hope it's echo Charles.
Yeah.
Because I just thought it was, remember we talked about this.
I'll figure out what Charlie, right?
And then when I asked you, you're like, no, my name is echo.
And what's Charles mean, you're like, it's my last name.
It's, it's less name.
I just just re-listened into the shows.
I can show you the other day.
And I was like, oh, yeah, can we talk to Echo about like,
how I thought for sure your real name was like,
was like, like, Ernie or something.
He called you Echo because it's cooler.
Yeah.
It starts with an E.
We didn't want no Ernie.
Oh, the podcast here.
Well, kind of like how you did with the excuse of bruiser.
You did that.
Is that thing?
And maybe if your name was like, Ernie,
I wouldn't have the change.
I just said Ernie, it's echo.
That would just sounds cooler.
And then Charles was like, because like,
maybe your real name was Charlie or something.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I dig it.
Well, with these books, good news.
By the way, books, speaking of books.
Yeah.
All these, you can, you can get every day heroes.
All these books on jocopadguest.com.
Yeah.
I got them organized.
There's a list of books.
All of them.
And you can get the dichotomy of leadership there as well.
And extreme. All these books.
Yeah.
I got them listed on a page.
Every book we've covered.
You haven't got every day heroes on there.
You do now.
No, I think I did for that.
Oh, okay.
My words on your website.
I think for real.
You'll be original one of them.
Yeah.
Unfuncing is for sure.
It is.
Yeah.
Oh, thanks, man.
I don't realize that.
Every book that we've done is on is on.
Thanks, jocopadguest.
I should have known.
I have a song too.
That's probably why it's still selling.
It's still selling.
That's what I mean.
Well, the weird thing you got to remember is that the lag time on the podcast is there's
there's there's there's many many people that start with episode one today.
No, bro.
That's what I said.
I say I get a message like weekly minimum one a week.
It's I just heard you on jocco.
Yeah.
And then I go like I resist the urge to say, oh,
if you heard me on episode was it 2014 or
you're going to say, yeah, 2525.
Wait till 11 11 or and then you know, because I want them to discover it on their own.
Yeah.
No, that's one of the coolest things is people and people ask me where should I start on the podcast and I say one.
And they definitely build on each other, but they're also timeless.
So it's not like you go, oh, well, they're talking about some political thing that happened in 2014 and I don't want to listen to that right now.
No, it's like we're talking about something that happened 480 years ago.
And you do want to hear about it.
Yeah.
So yeah, but I saw the economy leadership someone the other day had had wrote on Twitter.
This is the best leadership book I've ever read, which is normally what I hear about extreme ownership.
So now I see a little little replacement there.
Jade Charles is being you served by his younger brother.
That's what's going on.
So Jade better start to keep rooting for extreme ownership year.
You represent the decademy of leadership.
We got to have some on front leadership consultancy.
What we do is we solve problems through leadership.
It's me, Dave Babin, JP, and all day Burke.
Flynn Cochran, Mike's your rally, Mike Bima.
And Jason Gardner, someone put up like,
Dang, everyone at this company is a pipe editor.
No one can compete.
I was like, hmm, I'm not going to say no one can compete, but we definitely have awesome guys on the team.
That's echelon front dot com for details there.
We got the master coming in 2019, May 23rd and 24th in Chicago, September 19th, 20th and Denver, December 4th and 5th.
In Sydney, Australia.
That's right.
Go to extreme ownership dot com.
Everyone of these events is sold out.
And all of these are going to sell out.
They're actually selling faster than they've ever sold before.
When we look at our data analytics.
The made it data.
Yeah, I think it's met up.
No, we're going to say, wait a minute.
We made it data.
How do you guys call it?
We're going to Canadian.
Yeah, after this.
Yeah, the Canadian dates.
Yeah, yeah, phone line.
One of the reasons that we did this is because not everyone can come to the master.
And every time I post about the master,
there's someone that says, when do you come into Milwaukee,
when do you come into Detroit, when do you come into Ottawa,
when do you come into the water?
And the bottom lines we can't go everywhere to do monsters.
That was one of the things that made us make this thing.
EF online.
The other reason is we work with companies that have tens or hundreds of thousands of employees.
And they say, oh, can you just train all of it employees?
And I say, well, yeah, sure.
And then they say, I have 138,000 employees.
No, actually, that's going to be a problem.
So how to solve that problem.
We made EF online.
It is interactive training online that you can take.
EF online.com.
We have also EF Overwatch.
If you want a combat proven special operations leader or combat aviation leader
to come and work inside your company to make things happen,
then go to EF Overwatch.com.
Fill out the information, whether you're a vet that wants a position or your
talent, a talent, a secret that needs people that your company that can lead and
understand the principles that we talk about in extreme ownership,
then check that out.
And if you want to keep cruising with us, all of us can be found on the
interwebs, on Twitter, and on Instagram, and on the face.
You off Facebook.
No, he's on Facebook.
Echo is at Equitrails.
I am at Jocca, Willink, and Jodi is at Jodi, medic.
Echo, anything else?
I have nothing else.
Thank you.
Thank you for having nothing else.
See you, man.
Thank you.
It's good.
Jodi, anything else, brother.
Thank you, Jocca.
Thank you, Echo.
Thank you to the listeners.
And, you know, I'm working on being the best Jodi I can be.
And thanks for being there with For Me and with Kelly and I.
It's good that you have like a new mission.
Remember, you know, that was one of the best ways I've ever heard it.
Put like you need a mission.
So, man, if you don't have like an important mission, like,
you really care that, I mean, sure, I got, I know what I got to do tomorrow
and the next month and all.
But if it's not like that important to you,
but you're going to be like, all right, I need to tell you what happened, bro.
Right, the politics getting in the politics winning was a great mission.
Yeah.
And then I won.
And then I was like the dog that caught the car.
Yeah.
I was like, okay, what do I do now?
And I tried to learn and I, you know, I had the deputy mayor and the mayor
and they were all on my side and I had lots of like they all, we still talk,
but they could say they could see it.
My heart just wasn't in it, you know?
And like Kelly would always say she would always say, man,
you know, when you get excited and you talk about like going here to see the troops
or going there and shooting and going there and like planning up that business,
you've, I've owned open a gym since before I got blown up.
You know, and now I'm back on and I thought I could do both.
I thought being the counselor would let me like, you know, have a spot, open it,
like be there for meetings, but it's just, it's not just the work.
Not for me anyway, maybe if I go like, like, I might get political again in my 50s
after I make a few bucks and it's a little less more to pay the bills.
And so it's a little less to about paying the bills and more about getting things done.
So I make sense?
Yeah.
So we, you know, but right now I need to be myself for a while.
And so that's it.
But I tend your plan is to be Jody.
Don't check.
And as Echo said, that's a new mission, the new mission with the place that you're developing.
And you know, I'm talking, I'm talking.
I'm plugging for as long as I didn't realize how much you're doing and bro, like the respect
I have for you actually just went up hearing that.
And it's not like I, it's not like I can go much higher.
Don't get too, you go to this to go to this.
But, you know, guy like me thinking you're awesome,
but my point is everything you're doing is for the community.
And I had a sit down actually shot show 2017.
One of the guys I taught on his basic sniper sat, he's one of the best snipers in Canada.
One of our soft commanders.
He said, you need to stop.
He was another guy who told me you can do more for the community as Jody medic and working for yourself.
Then for working for cult or demaco or any of these other companies that I was looking at.
And you know, and it's being able to take the reins of leadership that you have.
And start doing the things listening to you talk.
I'm like, because Kelly and I, like we have a five and ten year plan where we hope we can have an employment website.
Where we hope we can have a speaking bureau that can take guys of a similar mindset and have a presence and put them out.
They're delivering a good message.
And you're doing all that and you're being an example for my kids, dude.
And like, because then, and you know, it takes a village to raise a kid.
And I want my daughters to know all the best people in the world.
And you're one of them.
And you're just everything you're doing with the people around you.
Like, I'm, I have, I have someone that's leading the way for me.
And I'm glad it's not just me doing it either.
Is that makes, like, I'm way, I'm 10 years behind you.
But, but now I know it's possible, too.
Yeah, no, it's, there's, there's plenty of room.
There's all kinds of people in the world that are down to move forward and move on.
And there's a plenty of pie for everybody.
That's the version.
Right now in Canada, we're dealing with a little bit of like,
too much competition, not enough collaboration.
And as far as the tactical after Army world.
But, you know, and the reason I kept throwing an auto-awed Canada there is because
they're hungry for Jocco in Canada.
And we should talk because, and we have a little bit of a,
yeah, yeah, we have a little bit.
But, but I'm telling you, it's probably bigger than you realize.
Okay, so anyway, I just wanted to throw that in.
You said anything else and I just listened to you talk.
It gives me hope that everything I want to do is achievable.
There's no doubt about it, I mean, I'm, I'm, I'm an average dude that I'm hard to work.
I will say that, but nothing special in any other way.
And I just, and you're good person after.
And, and, and good people attract good people and you, you know,
if you were hard to work with, people wouldn't work with you.
And that's one thing I've learned.
Like, you know, if you want good people around, you have to be a good person.
Yeah, no, it's, it's awesome to work with all the guys that I work with before.
And we're all working together again as actually with Jason Gardner.
We were just laughing because he got back from his gig.
I got back from my gig and he was just laughing and saying, this is so awesome.
Man, this is so awesome.
You're around all the people you were around in uniform.
Yeah, you can help each other again.
That's what it's all about, man.
Right, right.
It's what it's all about.
And speaking of those people in uniform that allow us to do this podcast,
people like you, Jodie, all of our military personnel.
And also, we're police and law enforcement and firefighters and
paramedics and EMTs and correction officers and border patrol and all the first responders that are out there in uniform.
All of you allow us the freedom and security that we have in it.
We relish every single day that allow us these opportunities.
So thanks to every single one of you for providing it.
And to everyone else that is listening.
We talk about the path.
And we talk about discipline and we talk about living clean,
but it is not an easy path.
It is filled with temptations and pitfalls and hazards and traps.
And it's hard to stay on the path.
And if you fall off, it can seem even harder to get back on.
But you can do it.
You got to be honest with yourself.
Do not be a slave.
Don't be a slave to drugs or booze or emotion or whatever.
Weakness is trying to be your master.
Don't allow it.
Tell the truth.
Call out your own weaknesses.
Then impose discipline, impose your will and climb back up onto the path and set yourself free.
And until next time, this is Jody Mitic and echo and jockel.
Out.